Transmission Line Digital Twin Implementation Handbook
Version 2 • Corrected implementation edition • 2 October 2026
This handbook guides an Electrical and Information Engineering project team from a first transmission-line calculation to a data-connected, versioned, observable software twin, and then to more advanced electrical, thermal and analytical models. Follow the stages in order. Each stage states the information needed, the files to edit, the commands to run, the result to expect, and the evidence required before moving forward.
The immediate deliverable is a read-only research twin for one line. It predicts electrical behaviour from defined boundary conditions, compares predictions with independent measurements, preserves data and model history, and exposes results through an API and dashboard. Connected components later share a network solver and simulation clock. The reference software is a working starting point that the team can inspect, test and extend.
All demonstration assets, operating points, thresholds, weather and fault parameters in this edition are synthetic. They are not CEB asset records or approved operating limits. The handbook provides a practical route to utility validation; measured line parameters, approved data access, topology records and field evidence must come from the project’s actual installation.
The companion archive contains the reference project. The source appendices reproduce its implementation files so the core project can also be reconstructed from this handbook. Use the archive to avoid typing mistakes. Commands are run from the project root unless a different directory is stated. Python commands below use Python 3.12 inside the project virtual environment.

Contents
1 Purpose and implementation route3
2 Electrical foundations and conventions4
3 Asset definition and data acquisition7
4 Software and workstation setup9
5 Stage 1 Build and verify the electrical model11
6 Stage 2 Prepare and import historical measurements13
7 Stage 3 Run the offline twin and API14
8 Stage 4 Deploy replay services locally16
9 Stage 5 Validate against the actual line19
10 Stage 6 Connect component twins through a shared network20
11 Stage 7A Add state estimation23
12 Stage 7B Add temperature and thermal behaviour24
13 Stage 7C Add mechanical state and clearance26
14 Stage 7D Add three phase and fault studies27
15 Stage 7E Add machine learning without weakening physics28
16 Stage 8 Connect an approved live data source30
17 Scale and upgrade the implementation31
18 Operation recovery and troubleshooting32
19 Team execution and final acceptance34
20 References and source material35
Appendix A Reconstruction and file inventory37
Appendix B Verification and expected outputs72
Appendix C Correction register74
Click a chapter title to navigate. Source listings are indexed by relative file path.

1 Purpose and implementation route
1 1 What the first twin does
A line model becomes useful as a twin when its asset identity, physical parameters, measurement stream, topology and model outputs remain connected through time. A dashboard alone cannot establish this relationship. Start by making the electrical model correct, then make the data handling reproducible, and finally establish that the model explains independent field measurements within a justified uncertainty budget.
For the first balanced model, provide sending-end line-to-line RMS voltage and receiving-end three-phase active and reactive power leaving the selected line. Predict receiving voltage, both terminal currents, sending active and reactive power, active loss and loading. Keep receiving voltage and the other predicted quantities out of the model inputs when evaluating those predictions.
The receiving P/Q measurements must belong to the selected line terminal. A substation’s total load cannot replace them when other lines, generators, transformers, capacitor banks or bus couplers are connected. If terminal P/Q is unavailable, model the surrounding network or use a separately validated state estimator. Do not silently infer terminal P/Q from unrelated station totals.
1 2 Stages and completion gates
Stage
Working result
Evidence needed to proceed
0 Preparation
Asset boundary and data dictionary
Units, directions, timestamps and topology are documented
1 Electrical model
One balanced line and independent pi calculation
Numerical agreement and power balance checks pass
2 Historical data
Strict CSV adapter and immutable dataset identity
Rejected rows inspected and time alignment justified
3 Offline twin
Versioned states in SQLite and read-only API
Duplicate, bad-input and replay tests pass
4 Replay platform
MQTT, PostgreSQL and Grafana
Restart, persistence and delivery checks pass locally
5 Field validation
Approved historical line comparison
Holdout errors, uncertainty and topology explain residuals
6 Connected network
Shared buses, transformer and line components
Network balance and island checks pass
7 Advanced models
Estimation, thermal, three phase and short circuit
Each model has the required extra data and its own validation
8 Operational research service
Monitored, backed-up read-only deployment
Access, recovery, performance and upgrade procedures demonstrated

Complete Stage 5 before claiming accuracy for an actual line. Advanced examples can be exercised with synthetic data while field data is being obtained, but that exercise demonstrates software operation rather than field accuracy. Stage 8 remains an advisory service until the utility separately approves any operational use.
1 3 Scope boundaries
The balanced core solves a succession of steady-state snapshots. A five-minute historian export can support loading and loss studies at that cadence; it cannot reconstruct millisecond transients, travelling waves, relay operating times or sub-cycle fault signatures. Three-phase steady-state, IEC 60909 short-circuit calculation and electromagnetic transient simulation answer different questions and require different models and measurements.
Temperature-dependent resistance is an electrical correction. Predicting conductor temperature additionally requires heat balance, weather, geometry and thermal inertia. Predicting clearance requires mechanical and surveyed terrain data. Underground cables require cable-specific thermal modelling. The overhead examples in this handbook must not be used as cable ratings.
If the team uses labels M0 to M5, define them as an internal project rubric: M0 asset model, M1 offline measurement comparison, M2 replayed synchronisation, M3 approved live read-only synchronisation, M4 validated advanced analytics, M5 approved integration and operational governance. These labels are not a universal digital-twin standard. Automatic actuation is a separate design decision, not a condition imposed by this rubric.
2 Electrical foundations and conventions
2 1 Quantities and units
Quantity
Core unit
Interpretation
Vs and Vr
kV
Balanced line-to-line RMS magnitude
Is and Ir
A
RMS phase current at the corresponding terminal
P
MW
Total three-phase active power
Q
MVAr
Total three-phase reactive power
R and X
ohm per km
Effective positive-sequence series parameters per phase
C
nF per km
Effective positive-sequence shunt capacitance per phase
G
microS per km
Effective positive-sequence shunt conductance per phase
f
Hz
Frequency used to convert capacitance to susceptance
maximum current
kA
Approved reference current for each full circuit

Use Vs divided by nominal voltage to supply pandapower’s slack-bus voltage in per unit. Convert pandapower’s terminal current in kA to A before comparing with the input contract. If the source gives phase-to-neutral voltage, convert it to line-to-line only after confirming a balanced representation. If the source gives individual phase powers, sum P and Q across phases; do not sum RMS voltage magnitudes.
For a balanced sinusoidal system, apparent power magnitude is sqrt(3) × VLL × Iphase. With voltage in kV and current in A, divide by 1000 to obtain MVA. P = |S| cos(phi) and Q = |S| sin(phi), where phi is the relevant voltage-current angle. RMS V and I magnitudes alone do not determine P, Q, power-factor sign or power direction. Obtain trustworthy P/Q meters or aligned voltage and current phasors or waveforms.
For general phasors use S = Va Ia* + Vb Ib* + Vc Ic*. The asterisk means complex conjugation. Record the phase order and reference angle. Averaging three phase magnitudes does not reconstruct positive-sequence voltage or establish balance.
2 2 Power directions
The handbook’s Psend and Qsend are positive into the line from its sending bus. Precv and Qrecv are positive out of the line into its receiving bus. Negative values represent reverse flow under the same reference directions. The reference code supports reverse active power flow; it does not swap terminal identities whenever power reverses.
Pandapower reports p_from and p_to as powers entering the branch at their respective ends [2]. Therefore Psend = p_from, Precv = −p_to, and active line loss = p_from + p_to = Psend − Precv. Apply the same sign transformation for Qrecv. Net reactive absorption = q_from + q_to. This quantity can be negative because of capacitive charging; do not label it active energy loss.
Both endpoint currents are positive magnitudes. They can differ because of charging current. Loading uses the larger terminal current relative to the reference rating, derating factor and number of full parallel circuits. A loading percentage is meaningful only when its rating source and assumptions are documented.
2 3 The nominal pi line
Use a series impedance Z between the terminal nodes and shunt admittance Y/2 at each end. All phasor equations in this subsection are per phase. For a single circuit, Z = (r + jx)L and Y = (g × 10⁻⁶ + j2πf c × 10⁻⁹)L, where L is km, r and x are ohm/km, g is microS/km and c is nF/km.
For n identical full circuits in parallel, the equivalent Z is divided by n and Y is multiplied by n. A bundle of subconductors within one phase is already represented in the effective r, x and c of that circuit. Set parallel_circuits to the number of complete three-phase circuits sharing both buses, not the number of subconductors in a bundle. Preserve bundle_count_per_phase as metadata for later parameter derivation and thermal/mechanical models.
The nominal pi ABCD constants are A = D = 1 + YZ/2, B = Z, and C = Y(1 + YZ/4). They satisfy AD − BC = 1. With Ir defined leaving the receiving terminal, Vs = A Vr + B Ir and Is = C Vr + D Ir.
With a known sending voltage and receiving complex three-phase power Sr, solve 3 Vr Ir* = Sr together with Ir = (Vs − Vr)/Z − Y Vr/2. The independent calculation uses SciPy’s root solver for the real and imaginary parts of Vr. Choose the normal high-voltage operating solution near nominal voltage and check convergence. A root solver’s success flag alone does not establish that a low-voltage or overloaded solution is physically acceptable.

Nominal pi circuit
For very long or demanding lines, compare the pi approximation against a distributed-parameter model using gamma = sqrt(zy), Zc = sqrt(z/y), A = D = cosh(gamma L), B = Zc sinh(gamma L), C = sinh(gamma L)/Zc. Use consistent per-length units and frequency. Select model fidelity from the required error and the line’s actual electrical length, not a length label alone. Upgrade the model_version and repeat holdout validation when changing the formulation.
2 4 A consistent numerical reference
The teaching line has 132 kV nominal voltage, 50 Hz, 65 km length, r = 0.08 ohm/km, x = 0.35 ohm/km, c = 9 nF/km, g = 0, one circuit and a 0.60 kA illustrative current limit. Resistance is referenced to 20 °C. Use Vs = 132.1 kV, Precv = 66.8 MW and Qrecv = 13.5 MVAr. These inputs give the following outputs in the tested code.
Output
Reference value
Unit
Receiving voltage
126.697514
kV
Receiving angle relative to sending bus
−4.994733
degree
Receiving current
310.556265
A
Sending current
307.531842
A
Sending active power
68.292348
MW
Sending reactive power
16.950410
MVAr
Active loss
1.492348
MW
Net reactive absorption
3.450410
MVAr
Illustrative loading
51.759378
percent

The independent ABCD implementation and pandapower agree within the numerical tolerances in the test suite. This establishes consistency of the two implementations for the selected equivalent circuit. It does not validate the synthetic line as an actual utility asset.
3 Asset definition and data acquisition
3 1 Define the asset before collecting values
Draw a single-line diagram identifying the two terminal buses, line circuit identity, meter locations, breaker and disconnector positions, bus couplers, shunts, connected transformers and other branches. Determine whether the measurement includes cable sections, line reactors, station equipment or only the overhead conductor. Set a documented asset_id and stable terminal direction.
Obtain the line’s as-built length and conductor arrangement, approved electrical parameters and reference temperature. If the installation contains materially different sections, represent them as separate connected sections with intermediate buses or derive a documented equivalent appropriate for the study. Do not use a single averaged rating when one section or terminal device governs the limit.
3 2 Request the minimum useful dataset
Request an approved historical export rather than installing measurement equipment as the first step. Ask for original timestamps and timezone, sample interval and aggregation method, signal quality flags, meter direction conventions, asset IDs, CT/PT ratios and accuracy, both terminal P/Q and V/I where available, and timestamped switching records. Retain the export exactly as received.
Data group
Minimum for the pilot
Additional information for advanced work
Identity
Line ID and terminal bus IDs
GIS sections, spans and equipment IDs
Electrical parameters
Length, positive-sequence R X C, frequency
Zero sequence, mutual coupling and earth return
Boundary inputs
Vs and selected branch Precv Qrecv
Shared network bus injections and source setpoints
Independent observations
At least Vr; preferably Ir Is Ps Qs
Synchronized phase phasors and waveform records
Topology
Timestamped connection state
Both terminal switches, bus sections and shunt states
Timing
Event time, timezone and cadence
Device clock accuracy and per-signal timing
Quality
Vendor flags and missing-data codes
Meter uncertainty and calibration records
Thermal
Reference temperature for R
Conductor temperature, span weather and geometry
Ratings
Rating value and its approved source
Seasonal limits, station limits and clearance criteria

A model can run with Vs and receiving P/Q, but accuracy cannot be assessed without an independent observation. If only receiving voltage is available for validation, explicitly report that current and loss have not been independently validated. If only single-ended measurements are available, state the assumptions needed to construct a boundary and test those assumptions separately.
3 3 Build the data dictionary
For every source column, document canonical name, engineering unit, scale and offset, terminal direction, phase interpretation, timestamp source, quality mapping, uncertainty and permitted use. For example, a receiving meter may publish signed power into the line; use scale −1 for Precv and Qrecv after confirming its convention. If it already reports power leaving the line, use scale +1. Verify signs during known forward and reverse operating periods.
A genuinely deenergized observation can contain zero voltage and remains valid measured data. Zero sending voltage with a configured energized state is recorded as a topology mismatch.
An export in volts requires a 0.001 scale for canonical kV. kW and kvar require 0.001 for MW and MVAr. A current in kA requires 1000 for A. Apply CT/PT scaling exactly once. Some SCADA values are already primary quantities. Compare known station readings and meter metadata before deciding to rescale them.
Missing values remain missing. Do not convert blanks, vendor sentinels such as −9999, or invalid quality to physical zeros. Configure those sentinels explicitly in the adapter before import. The supplied CSV adapter handles blank fields; additional vendor sentinels require a mapping or adapter extension and a corresponding test.
3 4 Timing and alignment
Store all canonical event times as timezone-aware UTC and preserve the original text. A Sri Lankan timestamp 2026-01-01 05:30:00 in Asia/Colombo maps to 2026-01-01 00:00:00 UTC. Never reinterpret local historical times as UTC. The importer assumes ISO date/time input; convert a vendor-specific format with a documented parser before using it.
Distinguish event_time when the plant quantity was sampled, received_at when this software received it, processed_at when the model state was generated, and clock_time against which freshness was assessed. Historical replay retains the original event time and uses an event clock. Live operation assesses freshness against the current UTC clock.
For separately arriving signals, use alignment.assemble_frame. It selects each signal’s latest record at or before the requested snapshot time, marks old records missing, and marks excessive skew suspect. It preserves selected per-signal times in source_metadata. Future samples are excluded. A recent BAD value is retained as BAD; the function does not replace it with an older GOOD value to conceal the problem.
The supplied 10 s maximum age and 2 s maximum skew are engineering examples, not universal limits. Set them from the device cadence, clock accuracy and observed rates of change. For five-minute historian averages, use a consistent averaging window for every signal and compare window averages rather than instantaneous values. A five-minute average paired with an instantaneous sample at the window end is not a synchronized electrical snapshot.
3 5 Data agreement and permissions
Document the data owner, approved use, retention, access method and whether raw exports may leave the organization. Use anonymized asset identifiers for external demonstrations. An authorized read-only export or gateway is sufficient for the initial twin. Obtain installation, isolation and work authorization before any field instrumentation; that work is outside the software setup instructions.
4 Software and workstation setup
4 1 The selected stack
The project uses Python for the model and data pipeline, pandapower for network calculations, SQLite for the first local run, PostgreSQL for the service, MQTT through Eclipse Mosquitto for replay and eventual approved streaming, FastAPI for read-only access, and Grafana for visualization. Docker Compose packages the service once the model works locally. Git records code changes. ML dependencies are optional until the physics and data workflow have been validated.
Software
Role
Reference selection
Python
Package runtime
3.12; clean validation uses 3.12.14
pandapower
Electrical solvers
3.5.5
NumPy and SciPy
Numerical calculation
2.3.5 and 1.17.0
pandas
Data library dependency
2.3.3
Pydantic
Contracts and validation
2.13.5
FastAPI and Uvicorn
Read-only API
0.115.12 and 0.34.2
SQLAlchemy and psycopg
Database access
2.0.41 and 3.2.9
Paho MQTT
Python MQTT client
2.1.0
PostgreSQL image
Persistent service database
postgres 18.6
Mosquitto image
Broker
2.1.2 alpine
Grafana image
Dashboard
13.2.3
pytest and httpx
Verification
8.3.5 and 0.28.1
scikit learn and joblib
Optional learning
1.7.2 and 1.5.2

The direct Python dependencies and resolved transitive dependencies are pinned in the project files. Container tags should be resolved to immutable digests during deployment and retained with that deployment’s manifest. Check current security updates when deploying; upgrading a package or image requires the upgrade procedure later in this handbook rather than changing versions during a scientific comparison.
Use a laptop with sufficient RAM to run Python initially; 8 GB is a reasonable starting allowance for the pilot. For a local multi-container service, plan around 16 GB and an SSD, then measure actual utilization. These are planning allowances rather than tested capacity guarantees. Do not buy a server or select a cloud size until the workload has been benchmarked.
4 2 Install on Windows
Install Python 3.12 from python.org and ensure the Python launcher is available. Install a code editor and Git. For the container stage, install Docker Desktop with the supported Windows virtualization backend and confirm that it is running. The basic model does not require Docker.
Extract the archive into a normal project directory such as C:\projects\transmission_line_twin_reference. Avoid protected system directories. Open PowerShell in that directory. The explicit virtual-environment executable avoids activation-policy problems.
py -3.12 --version
py -3.12 -m venv .venv
.\.venv\Scripts\python.exe -m pip install -r requirements.lock
.\.venv\Scripts\python.exe -m pip install -r requirements-dev.lock
.\.venv\Scripts\python.exe -m pip install --no-deps -e .
.\.venv\Scripts\python.exe -m pytest
Run subsequent Python commands as .\.venv\Scripts\python.exe. Run the CLI as .\.venv\Scripts\tl-twin.exe, or use the cross-platform form python -m tl_twin.cli with that interpreter. This handbook uses the latter form to keep commands consistent across operating systems.
4 3 Install on Linux or macOS
Install a supported Python 3.12 interpreter, Git and an editor. Install Docker Engine with Compose or Docker Desktop only for the container stage. From the extracted project root run:
python3.12 -m venv .venv
.venv/bin/python -m pip install -r requirements.lock
.venv/bin/python -m pip install -r requirements-dev.lock
.venv/bin/python -m pip install --no-deps -e .
.venv/bin/python -m pytest
In the remaining commands, replace python with the appropriate virtual-environment executable, or activate the environment once. In PowerShell use .\.venv\Scripts\Activate.ps1 if your local execution policy permits it. On Linux/macOS use source .venv/bin/activate. Do not change a machine-wide policy merely to avoid using the explicit executable.
4 4 Understand the directory layout
Location
Purpose
src/tl_twin
Contracts, solvers, pipeline and API
config
Line versions, CSV mapping and connected network
tests
Meaningful numerical and workflow checks
tools
Local configuration and service helpers
deploy
Broker, database and Grafana provisioning
docs
Handbook source and reference material
requirements files
Pinned Python dependencies
data
Generated or imported frames and replay checkpoints
models
Optional fitted models and metadata
twin.db
First local SQLite database

Data, fitted models, secrets and local databases are not committed to Git. Keep raw authorized data in access-controlled storage and record its checksum. The supplied source archive excludes credentials and generated databases. Create your own .env with the helper when reaching the container stage.
4 5 Establish a reproducible project
git init
git add .
git commit -m "Add transmission line twin reference version 2"
python -m pip check
Before a study, record the commit ID, configuration checksum, dataset checksum, run ID and dependencies. The run manifest records code version, critical package versions, the complete parameter timeline and measurement roles. For a team repository, add your own Git remote and access rules; the handbook does not assume that a remote exists.
5 Stage 1 Build and verify the electrical model
5 1 Enter the first line configuration
Open config/lines.json. It is an array of versioned line records. TL_001 is the worked example. TL_002 is a second independent asset for later scale exercises. These two pilot records are not a connected network; config/network.json supplies a separate shared topology for that experiment.
The minimum configuration includes asset_id, parameter_version, topology_version, valid_from, from_bus, to_bus, nominal_kv, length_km, r_ohm_per_km, x_ohm_per_km, c_nf_per_km, max_i_ka and parameter_source. Defaults such as 50 Hz and in_service = true are convenient for the teaching case; set them explicitly when importing an actual asset. Preserve the source document or test report for every parameter.
Valid intervals are half open: valid_from is included and valid_to is excluded. For each asset and event time exactly one version must apply. A gap produces PARAMETERS_UNAVAILABLE. An overlap also produces PARAMETERS_UNAVAILABLE rather than selecting the newest record arbitrarily. When an approved change occurs, close the old interval and add a new parameter_version for the new values.
The registry keeps electrical and topology values immutable under a parameter_version. Validity intervals are retained in the run’s complete configuration manifest. Closing an interval for a new run does not change the previous run’s manifest or results. Do not reuse an old run ID with a changed manifest.
5 2 Run the calculation directly
from tl_twin.contracts import load_configs
from tl_twin.physics import solve_line, solve_abcd
 
cfg = load_configs("config/lines.json")[0]
physics = solve_line(cfg, 132.1, 66.8, 13.5)
independent = solve_abcd(cfg, 132.1, 66.8, 13.5)
print(physics)
print(independent)
Save this snippet as tools/first_line.py and run python tools/first_line.py. It creates an empty network, two buses, one sending slack source, one line with its in_service flag, and a receiving load equivalent. The load absorbs the specified line-terminal receiving P/Q. Then it runs power flow and extracts results with the documented signs.
The independent solver implements the pi equations rather than reading pandapower’s output. Check the values in Chapter 2. A result near 129.9 kV for the same inputs and parameters is not the reference result in this edition; investigate unit conversion, boundary power, length, capacitance and voltage definition instead of accepting an inconsistent example.
5 3 Check numerical and physical consistency
Run python -m pytest. The test suite includes forward flow, zero receiving load, reverse flow, parallel circuits, temperature adjustment and power balance. For the basic reference cases the comparison tolerance is 10⁻⁷ relative or absolute in each result’s units. Numerical tolerance is not a meter-accuracy requirement.
Check that loss is Psend − Precv and nonnegative for this passive line, both terminal currents are finite, and the receiving voltage is plausible for the selected operating point. At zero receiving load, receiving current is essentially zero but sending charging current remains. An open receiving end does not imply an electrically dead line.
If the requested power exceeds a solvable operating point, the pipeline records MODEL_FAILED and preserves the measurement. It must not substitute the last good prediction under the current timestamp. A solver’s finite output should also be checked against the intended domain, asset rating and operating context.
5 4 Advance only after these checks
Save the reference output and test report. Have another team member verify the signs, units and equivalent-circuit interpretation. Replace synthetic parameters only after this baseline passes. If changing model fidelity, compare against the baseline on identical input frames under a new run ID and model version.
6 Stage 2 Prepare and import historical measurements
6 1 Preserve raw data and map columns
Copy the approved CSV to a controlled data directory without editing it. Open config/csv_mapping.json and change the column names, source_id, asset_id, timezone and signal mappings to match the export. Set data_origin to utility only for actual utility measurements; use laboratory for a laboratory dataset and synthetic for simulation.
The example mapping uses Vs_kV, Vr_kV, Pr_MW, Qr_MVAr, Ps_MW, Qs_MVAr, Is_A and Ir_A. The connection state is read from the connection_state column. If no such column exists, the default is UNKNOWN and the twin will skip electrical solving. Determine topology from approved switching data rather than changing the default to CONNECTED for an uncertain archive.
A minimal example row in the canonical directions is:
timestamp,connection_state,Vs_kV,Vr_kV,Pr_MW,Qr_MVAr,Ps_MW,Qs_MVAr,Is_A,Ir_A
2026-01-01T05:30:00,CONNECTED,132.1,126.70,66.8,13.5,68.29,16.95,307.53,310.56
For a quality column, add quality_column and quality_map to that signal’s mapping. Unrecognized vendor flags map to SUSPECT. Without a quality column, nonblank values are marked GOOD by this reference adapter; that only means the adapter accepted the value. It does not prove device accuracy or adequate time alignment. Document this assumption and add vendor quality as soon as it is available.
"p_recv_mw": {
  "column": "terminal_power_kw",
  "scale": 0.001,
  "quality_column": "terminal_power_quality",
  "quality_map": {"VALID": "GOOD", "INVALID": "BAD"},
  "sigma": 0.05
}
Sigma is a standard deviation in canonical units. It is not the meter’s percentage accuracy written as a raw number. Convert the vendor accuracy specification using its definition, full-scale value, operating range and error distribution. Keep common CT/PT or calibration errors as covariance where relevant; independent-error assumptions can understate uncertainty.
6 2 Import and inspect
python -m tl_twin.cli import-csv --input data/approved_export.csv --mapping config/csv_mapping.json --out data/imported.jsonl
The importer outputs accepted normalized frames, a rejects JSON file and a manifest JSON file. The dataset ID is a SHA-256 checksum of the original CSV bytes. Message IDs are deterministic from that dataset, mapping checksum and row number. The normalized source ID includes a mapping-checksum suffix; metadata retains the logical source ID and adapter version. Thus a revised interpretation can coexist with the original input under a new run without reusing conflicting frame identities. The original timestamp text and source-file checksum remain in each frame’s metadata.
Inspect rejected rows before solving. Common reasons include invalid dates, nonnumeric values, NaN/infinity, negative current magnitudes or unknown canonical fields. Do not silently discard an operating period because it increases prediction error. Keep rejected counts, reasons and affected timestamps in the validation report.
The adapter preserves duplicate source rows with distinct sequence numbers. Review duplicates within one timestamp and determine whether they represent separate samples or duplicate exports. The storage layer rejects conflicting frame identities; it does not guess which measurement is correct.
6 3 Inspect ranges and direction changes
Plot each signal over time and compare its minimum, maximum and missing count against plant records. Verify voltage scaling, plausible P/Q, reverse-flow periods, topology changes and outages. Check apparent power against sqrt(3)VLLI when all corresponding balanced quantities are independently available. The core uses a demonstration discrepancy tolerance of max(0.2 MVA, 3 percent of measured apparent power) and marks inconsistent combinations for review; replace that diagnostic tolerance using the installation’s actual uncertainty budget.
Resolve the time basis before interpolating. An isolated missing validation signal can simply produce no residual for that signal. Missing boundary inputs block solving. Interpolating across outages, topology changes, meter failures or large operating steps can manufacture an apparently smooth but incorrect electrical state.
6 4 Demonstrate alignment for separate signals
Construct an envelope containing only identity, source, dataset, event time, sequence and connection state. Put each numeric signal’s time-stamped records in samples. Call assemble_frame and inspect source_metadata before passing the frame to evaluate. Extend the adapter to retain the raw records and quality codes even if the normalized frame cannot be solved.
For an asynchronous historian export, assemble consistent windows using the same start/end and aggregation definition at both terminals. Compare a small manually checked sample with the adapter output. Record the selected age/skew rules in a versioned adapter configuration and include that configuration in study lineage.
7 Stage 3 Run the offline twin and API
7 1 Generate an entire synthetic day
python -m tl_twin.cli generate-demo --out data/demo.jsonl --rows 288
python -m tl_twin.cli process --input data/demo.jsonl --run-id offline-v2
python -m tl_twin.cli report --run-id offline-v2
There are 288 frames at five-minute intervals starting at 2026-01-01 00:00 UTC. Sending voltage, receiving power and reactive power vary through a day. Independent synthetic observations include an intentional receiving-voltage bias and small noise. The bias gives the comparison pipeline something measurable to detect; it is not an example of a real asset defect.
The first process command should report 288 accepted, 0 duplicates and 0 rejected. Run exactly the same command again: it should report 0 accepted, 288 duplicates and 0 rejected. Use a new run ID for a new model/configuration comparison. Runs share immutable input measurements while storing separate outputs.
The report presents count, bias, MAE and RMSE for independently observed Vr, Ir, Is, Ps and Qs. Units follow the signal contract. The pilot report loads up to 100000 states into memory; replace it with paged or SQL aggregation for a larger study. Include the number of usable and excluded comparisons beside every error metric.
7 2 Understand the state contract
Every stored state includes run_id, message_id, asset_id, dataset_id, data_origin, event_time, received_at, processed_at, clock_time, parameter_version, topology_version, model_version, prediction, raw physics residuals, model_status, assessment, freshness and quality flags. The run manifest identifies the parameter timeline and dependencies. These fields let a reader trace a plotted point back to its measurement and model context.
Model status
Meaning
Consumer behaviour
SOLVED
Electrical prediction is available
Display values with assessment and freshness
INPUTS_INSUFFICIENT
Required input absent or unusable
Show unavailable prediction and missing input reason
PARAMETERS_UNAVAILABLE
Missing or overlapping parameter interval
Request registry correction
TOPOLOGY_UNKNOWN
Connection state not established
Preserve observation and skip prediction
TOPOLOGY_MISMATCH
Telemetry conflicts with configured state
Review switching and configuration
NOT_ENERGIZED
Recorded deenergized state
Display state without fabricated electrical values
MODEL_DOMAIN_EXCEEDED
Frequency outside demonstration domain
Use a suitable model or investigate input
MODEL_FAILED
Solver or model output failed
Preserve input and error; do not substitute success

The frequency gate of ±0.5 Hz is a demonstration domain rule. It does not certify the model over that full range. The current implementation uses nominal frequency for electrical parameters. For an accurate frequency-sensitive model, use the measured frequency consistently in Y and X where appropriate and validate the modification.
Assessment is separate from model_status. WITHIN_LIMIT means the available raw voltage residual is below the configured demonstration threshold, not that the asset is healthy. WARNING and ALARM indicate those residual thresholds were crossed. DATA_REVIEW overrides this presentation when quality or cross-signal consistency needs attention. STALE_DATA prevents a solved but old frame from appearing current. UNASSESSED means no justified assessment was made.
7 3 Residuals and uncertainty
Define raw physics residual as measurement minus physics prediction. If measured Vr is 129.70 kV and physics Vr is 129.90 kV, the raw residual is −0.20 kV. If a separately validated correction predicts −0.12 kV of error, hybrid Vr is 129.78 kV and the hybrid residual is −0.08 kV. These three voltages are an arithmetic illustration, not the Chapter 2 reference case. Keep raw and hybrid residuals in different fields.
Measured active loss is measured Ps minus measured Pr, using the established directions. The reference computes this only when both measured powers are usable. If their errors are independent, loss sigma is sqrt(sigmaPs² + sigmaPr²). With covariance, use sigmaLoss² = sigmaPs² + sigmaPr² − 2 covariance(Ps,Pr). A small loss may be poorly resolved by large terminal-meter errors even when both meters have acceptable individual accuracy.
Measurement sigma alone is not predictive uncertainty. A fuller residual variance includes input error propagated through model sensitivities, parameter uncertainty, independent validation-meter error and model discrepancy. Estimate sensitivities with small finite perturbations of each input and parameter; verify stability when changing perturbation size. Use the resulting covariance to justify standardized residuals and assessment thresholds. Do not invent a percentage confidence score.
7 4 Start the read-only API
python -m uvicorn tl_twin.api:app --host 127.0.0.1 --port 8000
Open http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs in your browser. The API exposes health, latest state for an explicit run and asset, and recent history. It has no equipment-control endpoint. In another terminal:
curl http://127.0.0.1:8000/health
curl http://127.0.0.1:8000/v1/runs/offline-v2/lines/TL_001/latest
curl "http://127.0.0.1:8000/v1/runs/offline-v2/lines/TL_001/history?limit=20"
On Windows use curl.exe or Invoke-RestMethod. A 404 means no state exists for that run/asset. A 503 health response means the database or schema is not ready. The history limit is 1 to 2000. Latest is ordered by event time so a late historical frame cannot replace a more recent frame merely because it was received later.
7 5 Demonstrate the failure modes
Use the tests to confirm that a BAD Vs, Pr or Qr blocks solving, a receiving-open line still draws sending charging current, nonzero receiving power conflicts with an open-end state, an inactive line cannot be solved as connected, a reused message ID with changed content is rejected, and a late frame remains in history without regressing latest. Confirm that changing held-out measured Vr changes its residual but cannot change the physics prediction.
These tests protect behaviour that matters in use. When extending the project, preserve these contracts and add tests for the new domain rather than rewriting numerical tolerances to hide unexplained differences.
8 Stage 4 Deploy replay services locally
8 1 Prepare Docker and private configuration
Stop the local Uvicorn process so port 8000 is free. Verify Docker Desktop or Engine is running. The Compose service binds API, Grafana and MQTT ports to loopback. PostgreSQL has no host port. This is a local demonstration topology; it needs additional access controls, TLS and organizational review before use across machines.
docker version
docker compose version
python tools/configure.py
python tools/make_dashboard.py
docker compose config --quiet
docker compose pull
docker compose build
docker compose up -d
docker compose ps
configure.py creates random URL-safe passwords in .env and refuses to overwrite an existing file. Keep that file private and retain it securely with the deployment’s backup. Do not regenerate secrets for an existing database volume; PostgreSQL initialization scripts run only on first initialization, so changing .env alone does not change persisted database passwords.
The broker initialization service creates separate publisher, worker and viewer accounts. Its ACL allows the demo publisher to write measurement topics, the worker to read measurements and publish states, and the viewer to read states. Authentication and topic authorization are distinct checks. The demonstration listener is plaintext on the local host/container network; remote deployment requires TLS and the approved network route.
8 2 Startup sequence and persistence
The database health check uses pg_isready. db-init waits for health and creates the reference schema using the application role with retry. API and worker depend on successful schema initialization; the worker also waits for the authenticated broker health check. Health-conditioned dependencies establish initial readiness, while retries and reconnect handling address later interruptions. A plain depends_on declaration alone would not prove service readiness [9].
The PostgreSQL 18 volume is mounted at /var/lib/postgresql [8]. Its default data directory is version-specific beneath that directory. Do not copy a PostgreSQL 17 example using /var/lib/postgresql/data into this configuration without deliberately adapting PGDATA and storage layout. Named volumes also retain broker queues and Grafana’s configuration database.
db-init uses SQLAlchemy create_all to initialize a new schema. It does not upgrade an existing schema. Before changing database columns in a later release, introduce explicit migrations, test them on a restored backup and keep compatible readers during rollout.
8 3 Replay measurements
The worker’s run ID is replay-v2, stream is demo, and mode is replay. Generate data if necessary, then publish from the host virtual environment:
python -m tl_twin.cli generate-demo --out data/demo.jsonl --rows 288
python tools/replay_docker.py --input data/demo.jsonl --speed 600
docker compose logs --tail 50 worker api broker
curl http://127.0.0.1:8000/v1/runs/replay-v2/lines/TL_001/latest
A speed of 600 publishes a five-minute interval every 0.5 seconds, taking about 2.4 minutes for the day. The original event times are preserved. The publisher checkpoint advances after the broker acknowledges a message. Broker acknowledgement does not prove that the worker has committed its state; inspect API/database counts before declaring replay complete.
The input topic is dt/v1/input/demo/line/TL_001/measurement. State topics include the run: dt/v1/run/replay-v2/line/TL_001/state. This prevents outputs from different model runs sharing one retained-looking stream. Messages are not retained. MQTT QoS 1 permits redelivery [13], so downstream state consumers must deduplicate by run_id plus message_id as well.
8 4 Delivery and retry behaviour
The worker uses a stable client ID and a persistent MQTT 3.1.1 session with manual acknowledgement. It commits the measurement and derived state together, then acknowledges the input. Invalid messages are committed to a dead-letter table before acknowledgement. A transient database error leaves the frame pending and unacknowledged for retry.
The state table is also the transactional outbox. A pending state is published with QoS 1, then marked published after broker acknowledgement. A crash between those steps can publish it again; state identity makes that duplicate recognizable. The database is the authoritative result history, not the broker subscription.
The reference runs one worker owner per stream. It is not a horizontally shared worker system. Before adding workers for the same stream, add coordinated ownership or transactional claiming and uniqueness handling. A second client with the same MQTT client ID can disconnect the first. More replicas alone do not establish safe scale.
Finite queues and disks require monitoring. The example inbox is limited to 1000 frames and the broker queue to 10000 messages. A full inbox stops the worker process without acknowledging the pending frames; Compose restarts it and the persistent broker session redelivers them. If the broker reaches its own queue limit or loses unflushed persistence, delivery can still be incomplete. Retain normalized source files and checkpoints so the run can be reconciled and replayed.
8 5 Use the dashboard
Open http://127.0.0.1:3000, sign in as admin using the generated Grafana password from your private .env, and open Transmission line twin v2. Select the correct run and asset. The initial dashboard time window is 1 January 2026 UTC so the historic demonstration appears without changing data timestamps to today.
The dashboard shows measured and predicted receiving voltage, raw physics residual, active loss, loading, latest model status, assessment, origin and versions. Grafana connects with a read-only database role. For actual data choose the historical time range explicitly and set the display timezone deliberately. Keep UTC as the canonical storage time even if displaying Sri Lankan local time.
The supplied dashboard’s latest-status query shows the stored assessment at processing time. In live deployment, extend it to calculate current age/future-time flags from event_time; otherwise a stopped stream can leave an old WITHIN_LIMIT value visible. The API already returns current freshness for live mode, separate from the stored replay assessment.
8 6 Verify restarts and reconcile counts
docker compose exec -T db psql -U twin_admin -d twin -c "SELECT run_id, count(*) FROM twin_states GROUP BY run_id;"
docker compose restart worker
docker compose restart broker
docker compose down
docker compose up -d
Verify that the 288 states remain after recreation and that the dashboard still reads them. To test duplicate input delivery, remove only the demo replay checkpoint and publish the same normalized file again. Counts should remain 288. Do not delete volumes as a troubleshooting step for real data. docker compose down removes containers and networks; adding the volumes-removal option destroys persisted service data.
Replay completeness requires accepted expected message identities, not only a count. Compare normalized input IDs against measurements and run states, inspect dead letters, and confirm there are no gaps or conflicting IDs. A count can be correct while the wrong timestamps or assets were processed.
9 Stage 5 Validate against the actual line
9 1 Separate configuration from validation
First confirm the asset parameters, topology, data mapping and boundary interpretation against approved records. Use an early chronological period for any calibration and keep a later period untouched for validation. Include different load levels, power factors, reverse flow if present, seasons and relevant switching configurations. Report which regimes were represented and which were absent.
Run imported actual data under a new run ID such as utility-holdout-v1 using the actual configuration file. Never replace the synthetic line’s parameter_source with an actual name while retaining unverified teaching values. A real asset config is a separately sourced model.
python -m tl_twin.cli --config config/actual_line.json --db sqlite:///actual-study.db process --input data/imported.jsonl --run-id utility-holdout-v1
python -m tl_twin.cli --config config/actual_line.json --db sqlite:///actual-study.db report --run-id utility-holdout-v1
The CLI’s global options precede the subcommand. Keep the actual config and raw data access controlled; share anonymized reports when needed.
9 2 Metrics and diagnostic plots
For each independent signal report usable count, excluded count, bias, MAE, RMSE and a high percentile absolute error. Plot measurement against prediction, residual against time, load, voltage, reactive power and temperature, and residual distribution. Stratify by asset section/configuration version and operating regime. A small aggregate average can hide a poor high-load regime.
Inspect measured and predicted loss with the terminal-meter uncertainty. Also plot power-current consistency and timestamp skew. Do not use Vs, Pr or Qr agreement as independent validation of this boundary-driven model because those values were supplied to it.
State estimation changes the measurement roles. A quantity used as an estimator measurement cannot simultaneously be treated as a held-out validation target for that same estimate. Maintain a role manifest listing input, calibration, estimator observation and independent validation roles for each experiment.
9 3 Diagnose residual patterns
An approximately constant voltage bias may indicate meter offset, ratio error or systematic model discrepancy. Load-dependent errors may suggest resistance or reactance error, wrong power allocation or changing temperature. Step changes may indicate topology or calibration changes. Negative measured passive loss can result from meter direction errors, asynchronous data or meter uncertainty; investigate before interpreting it as unusual physics.
Do not identify a physical fault from residual magnitude alone. Verify data quality, topology, synchronization and model domain first, and seek an independent indication. The twin should report a discrepancy with its evidence and uncertainty rather than claim a defect that has not been established.
9 4 Set acceptance criteria before looking at the holdout
Define acceptable error relative to the intended use and measurement uncertainty. For example, an advisory loading study needs trustworthy current and rating limits, while a loss study needs terminal-meter differences resolved more accurately than the loss effect of interest. The demonstration 0.4 kV warning and 0.8 kV alarm thresholds are software examples and must not be transferred to the actual line.
Record criteria for voltage/current error, comparison coverage, freshness, unsolved frames and topology consistency. A candidate passes only if it meets those criteria across the required regimes. If the uncertainty budget makes the desired effect unresolvable, improve measurements or narrow the claim instead of reducing the threshold arbitrarily.
9 5 Calibrate parameters with care
calibration.fit_rx demonstrates bounded R/X fitting using early chronological data and an untouched later test period. It minimizes voltage residuals with robust loss and measurement weights. Call it only for one known parameter/temperature regime. Obtain bounds from asset records or tests; the supplied ±50 percent bounds are teaching bounds, not approved tolerances.
from tl_twin.contracts import load_configs
from tl_twin.calibration import fit_rx
 
cfg = load_configs("config/actual_line.json")[0]
result = fit_rx("data/calibration.jsonl", cfg, "models/rx_candidate.json")
print(result)
Voltage magnitude alone can poorly distinguish R, X, capacitance and meter bias. Inspect the Jacobian condition number, fitted bounds and variation in load/power factor. Improve identifiability with independent current, both-terminal P/Q, conductor temperature and calibration records. Treat highly conditioned or bound-hitting fits as inconclusive. The example does not model errors in boundary inputs or shared meter covariance.
The fitter writes a candidate report and does not alter the registry. Compare the candidate against nameplate/engineering evidence, validate it on new regimes and approve a new parameter_version explicitly. Avoid simultaneously changing physical parameters and fitting an ML residual corrector on the same unexplained discrepancy.
9 6 Field validation record
Produce a report containing the use case, asset boundary, approved parameter sources, raw dataset/mapping hashes, commit, dependencies, run IDs, time alignment rules, quality exclusions, calibration split, holdout results, uncertainty assumptions, failures and unresolved regimes. Include plots and a clear conclusion limited to the measured conditions. This report is the evidence that supports calling the research model a validated twin for that use case.
10 Stage 6 Connect component twins through a shared network
10 1 Why a coordinator is required
An isolated line twin can treat its terminal conditions as measured boundaries. When several lines and transformers form one network, their voltages and flows must satisfy the same bus equations. Independently solving each line with unrelated slack voltages can give incompatible voltages at a shared bus and violate Kirchhoff’s laws. Publishing component states to a common broker does not resolve that inconsistency.
Use a network coordinator that owns the shared bus registry, timestamped topology, snapshot clock, assembled pandapower network and one power-flow or estimation solve per snapshot. Each component contributes physical elements and extracts its own state from the same solved network. Asset-specific analytics may run separately after the shared electrical solve.

Shared network coordinator
The network boundary requires source voltage/angle references, measured or estimated bus injections, generator setpoints and topology. Receiving branch P/Q is an output in this formulation rather than an extra load placed at every line endpoint. A station load appears once at its bus. Adding the same demand as both a bus load and every adjacent line’s boundary equivalent would double count it.
10 2 Run the connected example
python -m tl_twin.cli network-demo
Open config/network.json. BUS_A supplies TL_001 to BUS_B; TL_002 continues to BUS_C. A 132/33 kV transformer connects BUS_B to BUS_D. Separate loads are attached at B, C and D. All numbers are synthetic. network.build_network creates each bus once, checks bus IDs and voltage-level transitions, and rejects unsupplied islands before solving.
Result
Tested value
Unit
BUS_A voltage
133.320000
kV
BUS_B voltage
127.878770
kV
BUS_C voltage
125.836884
kV
BUS_D voltage
31.724628
kV
Total line and transformer loss
1.988060
MW
Absolute active power balance error
less than 0.000001
MW

Compare total source power plus generation with total load plus all branch losses. The model uses one source angle reference. For meshes, multiple sources and controls, document slack allocation, generator voltage/Q limits and tap/shunt control logic before expanding the snapshot solve.
10 3 Component interfaces
Interface responsibility
Line contribution
Transformer contribution
Identity and ports
Asset ID and terminal bus IDs
Asset ID and HV/LV bus IDs
Build shared elements
Series/shunt line parameters
Ratio, impedance, losses and connection data
Apply snapshot
Service/switch state and resistance
Service state, tap position and controls
Extract solved state
Terminal flows, currents and losses
Winding flows, loading and losses
Local advanced analytics
Thermal, sag and residual analysis
Thermal/ageing and tap diagnostics

Keep the electrical build interface independent of MQTT, database and dashboard code. The supplied network builder already separates buses, lines, transformers, loads and generators. When adding a new component type, add its configuration contract, builder, snapshot update and extraction code, then test conservation and interface identity on a small known network.
The isolated line configuration and connected-network snapshot are different experiments. Do not feed isolated pilot results into config/network.json as imposed voltage sources at internal buses. Compare component measurements with the shared solution, and record the coordinator snapshot_id in every extracted component state.
10 4 A practical shared clock
For each snapshot time, collect approved topology and each input’s latest permissible sample using the alignment rules. Wait only until the configured lateness deadline. Freeze the complete snapshot, solve once and store its topology/parameter/input identities. Mark missing or suspect inputs explicitly. Recompute a corrected snapshot under a new revision ID if late information changes the study; preserve the original result.
For historical replay, process events in event-time order and use that clock for all components. For live processing, use an event-time watermark derived from observed lateness and a bounded delay. Choose this delay against the use case’s maximum latency. A shared clock does not require every sensor to arrive at the same wall-clock instant, but it does require a defensible common temporal interpretation.
10 5 Topology and islands
Model both line-terminal switches, bus sections, transformer service states and reactors when moving beyond the simple connection_state abstraction. A receiving-open branch can be energized from the sending side and draw charging current. A branch open at both ends, or open at the sending end and energized from the receiving bus, is a different situation.
The core’s RECEIVING_OPEN mode is an ideal open receiving boundary with zero receiving load and the full line still energized from the sending source. It does not represent arbitrary station switching. Upgrade to explicit pandapower switches and connected-network topology for those cases; compare expected charging and isolation behaviour in dedicated tests.
Check each island for a valid source/reference before solving. Record unavailable states for unsupplied islands instead of showing nominal voltage or zero-flow values as solved data. Topology changes receive their own version and validity time, even if conductor parameters are unchanged.
11 Stage 7A Add state estimation
11 1 When estimation helps
State estimation combines redundant measurements and a network model to infer consistent bus voltage magnitudes and angles. It is useful when direct measurements are incomplete or noisy. It cannot create reliable information from a structurally unobservable placement or repair an incorrect topology merely by converging.
For a balanced n-bus island with one angle reference, the usual voltage-magnitude and angle state has 2n − 1 unknowns. Having that many measurements is necessary in the common formulation but does not establish observability. Measurement placement, independence and the Jacobian rank matter. Every additional island requires an appropriate reference and its own observability check.
11 2 Run and inspect the example
python -m tl_twin.cli estimate-demo
The example uses three connected 132 kV buses, three voltage magnitude measurements and sending P/Q for both lines. It has seven measurements and five unknown states. Measurements are generated from a synthetic power-flow solution without added noise so the expected voltage estimation error is near numerical precision. This proves basic solver wiring, not performance on noisy utility data.
In pandapower’s measurement API, bus voltage magnitude is per unit, active/reactive power is MW/MVAr and current is kA. Measurement sigma uses the same unit as its value. Explicitly specify a line measurement’s side. Derive standard deviations from device and processing uncertainty rather than giving every channel the same arbitrary weight.
11 3 Implement a real estimator stage
Create the shared network for the snapshot. Clear old measurement rows. Add only observations available by that snapshot’s as-of time and accepted by quality/alignment checks. Add separately labelled pseudo-measurements only when needed, with substantially larger justified uncertainty. Run estimation with bounded iterations, record success and retain the measurement set, sigmas, topology and estimated state.
Then inspect residuals and observability/conditioning. Add a controlled bad-data exercise, for example a biased P channel, and compare normalized residuals against a documented diagnostic method. Investigate correlated errors and topology errors before removing channels. Repeatedly removing the worst residual until convergence can conceal a structural problem.
Reserve one or more measurements for independent validation when placement permits, or obtain a separate trusted reference such as synchronized instrumentation. Report uncertainty, measurement coverage and unavailable islands. Keep estimator-derived Precv/Qrecv labelled as estimates when they become an isolated line twin’s boundary inputs.
11 4 Estimator acceptance
Demonstrate an observable normal case, a missing-channel case, an unobservable placement, a biased measurement, an incorrect switch state and an island. Each must produce an interpretable outcome. A failed estimate is not a reason to publish guessed nominal bus states.
12 Stage 7B Add temperature and thermal behaviour
12 1 Measured temperature correction
For a justified conductor temperature T, use R(T) = Rref[1 + alpha(T − Tref)]. TL_001 uses Tref = 20 °C and alpha = 0.00403 per °C as synthetic aluminium-like teaching values. At 80 °C its resistance becomes 0.099344 ohm/km. Select alpha and the reference from the actual conductor’s documented AC resistance behaviour.
Set use_measured_temperature to true only when conductor_temp_c is an accepted conductor-temperature signal. Missing or bad temperature then blocks that model’s solve. Ambient temperature is not conductor temperature. Avoid applying this correction in both the line builder and a solver temperature option, which would correct resistance twice.
For a sectioned asset, update each section’s resistance using its relevant conductor temperature and approved model. Preserve the temperature observation and quality in lineage. Validate current, voltage and loss before attributing a residual improvement to the temperature model.
12 2 Thermal heat balance
Per unit conductor length, a thermal model follows mCp dT/dt = I²R(T) + qsolar − qconv − qrad. mCp is heat capacity in J/(m·K), R is ohm/m, current is per conductor, and each heat term is W/m. For a bundle, divide phase current according to an appropriate current-sharing model and use each subconductor’s thermal geometry; do not apply total phase current to every subconductor.
The reference teaching model defines convection coefficient h = 5 + 10 sqrt(v) W/(m²·K), qconv = hπD(T − Ta), qsolar = absorptivity × D × solar irradiance, and qrad = emissivity × sigmaSB × πD[(T + 273.15)⁴ − (Ta + 273.15)⁴]. This deliberately simple coefficient makes the numerical method reproducible. It is not an IEEE 738-compliant rating algorithm and needs calibration or replacement for field use.
Obtain diameter, conductor mass/material heat capacity, emissivity, solar absorptivity, AC resistance, air temperature, wind speed/direction relative to the span, solar irradiance and initial conductor temperature. Weather measured at a substation may not represent a low-wind critical span. Record sensor height, exposure and uncertainty.
12 3 Run thermal examples
python -m tl_twin.cli thermal-demo
The example solves a 600 s pandapower temperature-dependent power-flow step with synthetic weather, and a separately specified educational heat equation. The load is 80 MW and 16 MVAr, with initial conductor and air temperature 35 °C, diameter 0.028 m, wind 0.6 m/s, 800 W/m² irradiance, emissivity/absorptivity 0.5 and heat capacity 1000 J/(m·K).
Thermal result
Approximate tested value
Interpretation
Maximum terminal current
376.62 A
Electrical input to teaching thermal comparison
pandapower temperature after 600 s
44.28 °C
TDPF example result
Teaching heat model after 600 s
44.49 °C
Different explicit heat model result
Teaching model steady temperature
51.69 °C
Equilibrium for the teaching heat terms
Teaching 80 °C heat-balance limit
747.82 A
Illustrative thermal limit only

Different heat-transfer formulations need not produce identical temperatures. Agreement in this single case would not certify either model. The 747.82 A teaching result is not an approved increase over the configuration’s 600 A illustrative limit.
The installed pandapower version uses conductor_outer_diameter_m, mc_joule_per_m_k, air_temperature_degree_celsius, wind_speed_m_per_s, wind_angle_degree, solar_radiation_w_per_sq_m, solar_absorptivity, emissivity, temperature_degree_celsius and reference_temperature_degree_celsius for this detailed example. Use the exact tested column names in advanced.py; broad descriptions in online documentation may differ from installed implementation names.
12 4 Build a thermal replay
For each span/section, initialize temperature from a trusted observation or a documented equilibrium assumption. At each event interval, hold or interpolate I/weather according to the data definition, integrate the heat equation over the actual elapsed seconds, and carry the final temperature to the next interval. Store the initial state, weather/input identities, elapsed time, solver/version and final temperature.
At the next electrical solve update R from this temperature exactly once. For strong coupling, iterate electrical current and thermal temperature with a convergence criterion or use the TDPF solver with an appropriate step formulation. Do not repeatedly start each time step from ambient temperature; doing so discards thermal inertia.
For missing weather or unknown initial temperature, retain uncertainty and use an approved conservative fallback or mark thermal output unavailable. Demonstrate cooling at zero current, warming under current, sensitivity to wind/solar conditions, step-size convergence and comparison with measured temperature.
12 5 Dynamic rating and cable modelling
A steady heat-balance current limit at Tmax is sqrt[(qconv(Tmax) + qrad(Tmax) − qsolar)/R(Tmax)] when the numerator is positive. A transient rating additionally depends on the initial temperature, duration and heat capacity. For a line, compute the critical-span limit and then take the minimum allowed by conductor temperature, clearance/sag, terminal equipment, protection and any other approved constraint. Report assumptions and uncertainty with the limit.
For operational overhead ratings, implement and verify the chosen approved standard/method using its complete requirements and conductor/weather inputs, compare against trusted reference cases, and obtain engineering approval. This handbook’s research examples are not an operational DLR certification.
Underground cable thermal models need insulation/sheath/armour geometry, losses, bonding, soil or duct thermal resistance, installation depth, grouping and thermal history. Use the relevant approved cable rating/transient methods, such as the applicable IEC 60287 and IEC 60853 parts, after obtaining the actual installation data. Reuse the data/version/service interfaces while replacing the overhead thermal physics.
13 Stage 7C Add mechanical state and clearance
13 1 Begin with measured geometry and tension
For a level span with horizontal tension H and uniform conductor weight w, exact catenary sag is (H/w)[cosh(wL/(2H)) − 1]. The small-sag parabolic approximation is wL²/(8H). L is metres, w is N/m and H is N. Temperature is not present in either expression unless the temperature-dependent tension is separately determined.
from tl_twin.mechanical import sag_catenary
print(sag_catenary(300, 12, 20000))
This level-span example gives approximately 6.7546 m catenary sag and 6.7500 m parabolic sag. mechanical.py requires tension as an input. It does not infer a valid H(T) from electrical current or ambient temperature and does not certify clearance.
13 2 Upgrade the mechanical model
Obtain span lengths and support elevations, terrain/survey points, attachment heights, conductor mass and diameter, initial stringing temperature/tension, elasticity, thermal expansion, creep history and applicable wind/ice loads. Establish a stress-strain/state-equation model that converts conductor temperature and loading into tension. For unequal supports use the general catenary with the correct low point and boundary elevations.
Implement the temperature-to-tension solve separately from the geometry function, document assumptions and validate against stringing/sag tables and surveyed or measured sag. Calculate clearance along the entire span against terrain and crossing objects; lowest conductor elevation alone is not sufficient for every crossing geometry.
At each thermal snapshot, calculate approved H(T), then geometry and clearance. Version the survey and mechanical parameters and link outputs to the thermal snapshot. Where survey or tension data is absent, report sag/clearance unavailable rather than substituting a generic safe clearance. Operational alarm thresholds must come from the applicable utility design and statutory criteria.
14 Stage 7D Add three phase and fault studies
14 1 Three phase steady state
Run the tested unbalanced feeder example:
python -m tl_twin.cli three-phase-demo
It is a separate synthetic 20 kV, 2 km feeder with asymmetric phase loads, explicit positive/zero-sequence line parameters and source short-circuit/sequence information. Its receiving phase-voltage magnitudes are approximately 1.01800, 1.01960 and 1.01997 pu. The negative-to-positive sequence voltage ratio is about 0.04925 percent.
This example establishes three-phase solver use without inventing phase quantities for the 132 kV balanced pilot. To model the actual line asymmetrically, obtain phase phasors or trustworthy phase RMS/PQ measurements, phase ordering, zero-sequence parameters, grounding, transformer vector groups and relevant coupling. Check that the selected solver supports the actual connection configuration.
For phase voltage phasors Va, Vb, Vc and a = exp(j2π/3), V0 = (Va + Vb + Vc)/3, V1 = (Va + aVb + a²Vc)/3, V2 = (Va + a²Vb + aVc)/3. Voltage unbalance in this definition is 100 |V2|/|V1|. Do not compute these phasor sequences from three magnitudes with guessed angles and then describe them as measured sequence quantities.
Pandapower’s phase per-unit voltage results use the appropriate phase base. Interpret actual phase-to-neutral voltage against nominal line-to-line voltage divided by sqrt(3). Validate phase direction, phase order and results on balanced, known-unbalanced and grounding test cases before using live phase data.
14 2 Short circuit calculation
python -m tl_twin.cli fault-demo
The example calculates a maximum three-phase IEC 60909-style short circuit at BUS_C in the synthetic connected network. The approximate initial symmetrical current is 1.94749 kA, peak current 4.14407 kA and 1 s thermal equivalent current 1.96167 kA. The source’s short-circuit level and R/X are explicitly supplied as synthetic parameters.
An actual study requires approved maximum/minimum source equivalents, voltage factors, equipment correction assumptions, sequence/grounding data for unbalanced faults and fault impedance where applicable. Positive-sequence normal-operation R/X alone does not establish earth-fault performance. Review bus/branch results and compare with a trusted short-circuit study before interpreting equipment duty.
14 3 Fault monitoring and transients
Historical SCADA can label outage periods and coarse abnormal operating conditions. It usually cannot provide the waveform evidence needed for phase/earth fault classification, location or protection timing. For those tasks obtain authorized disturbance-recorder or PMU/waveform data with sampling rate, trigger times, synchronization and CT/PT saturation context.
For waveform analytics, keep raw waveforms outside the snapshot table, reference them by checksum/event ID, and derive versioned features with phase orientation and window definitions. Split training/test events by physical incident rather than randomly splitting waveform windows from the same fault. Compare against relay/event records and quantify false detections on normal switching events.
For electromagnetic transients, select an EMT solver and line model appropriate to frequency dependence, travelling waves and required time step. Couple its event/time interface explicitly to the slower twin if needed. Do not describe the supplied steady-state or short-circuit calculation as an EMT/protection twin.
15 Stage 7E Add machine learning without weakening physics
15 1 Two separate learning tasks
Residual correction estimates a systematic difference between a measured quantity and the raw physics prediction at the same time. Forecasting estimates a future quantity from information available now. Treat them as different models with different labels, feature availability and validation methods. Neither requires replacing the electrical solver.
The residual example uses Vs, receiving P and receiving Q to estimate measured Vr minus physics Vr. Its corrected voltage is physics Vr plus the predicted residual. Raw physics residuals remain available for discrepancy alarms. A correction that cancels an abnormal raw residual cannot by itself establish that the abnormal condition is harmless.
15 2 Run residual training
python -m tl_twin.cli train-residual --input data/demo.jsonl --out models/residual.joblib
The code trains one asset and one parameter regime. It uses chronological 60 percent training, 20 percent calibration and 20 percent test partitions. Scaling is fitted only on training data. The baseline is uncorrected physics. Metadata includes features, asset/parameter/physics versions, data origin, dataset IDs, file hash, split endpoints, training bounds, test errors and empirical interval coverage.
The one-day synthetic dataset intentionally contains a simple bias. Good performance on it confirms pipeline operation. It is not evidence that an ML correction improves a utility twin. One day also may not cover the operating envelope in the early training partition.
The report distinguishes unguarded test MAE from guarded test MAE. corrected_voltage rejects incompatible versions, missing inputs and values outside the training bounds, falling back to raw physics. Therefore evaluate the guarded behaviour and the fraction of test samples on which ML is actually used. Rectangular feature bounds are a minimum safeguard; multivariate and temporal shifts still need monitoring.
15 3 Apply an approved candidate
import joblib
from tl_twin.contracts import load_configs, Measurement
from tl_twin.physics import solve_line
from tl_twin.learning import corrected_voltage
 
cfg = load_configs("config/lines.json")[0]
with open("data/demo.jsonl", encoding="utf-8") as handle:
    measurement = Measurement.model_validate_json(next(handle))
raw = solve_line(cfg, measurement.vs_ll_kv,
                 measurement.p_recv_mw, measurement.q_recv_mvar)
artifact = joblib.load("models/residual.joblib")
print(corrected_voltage(artifact, cfg, measurement, raw["vr_ll_kv"]))
Load only trusted locally generated model artifacts; joblib/pickle loading executes serialized Python objects. When integrating an approved candidate, store hybrid_prediction, residual_hybrid, correction_model_version and fallback_reason alongside the existing raw prediction/residual. Add database migrations and API contract versioning for the new fields. The reference service does not automatically promote or enable a fitted model.
15 4 Prevent label and time leakage
Do not supply measured Vr as a feature when predicting Vr and claim independent prediction. Do not train measured loss = Ps − Pr using both Ps and Pr as features and call the arithmetic relationship predictive discovery. Do not use a future weather observation, later corrected timestamp, future load or a test-period scaler during forecast evaluation.
Write a feature availability table containing each feature’s physical event time, arrival delay, preprocessing window and availability by prediction time. Include dataset revisions and as-of queries. Chronological row splitting alone does not prevent algebraic target leakage or access to future information.
For residual correction, keep calibration and holdout observations separate. For forecasting with future labels, purge the horizon near split boundaries so a training label cannot cross into the next evaluation period. Keep all windows from one physical incident together in waveform classification.
15 5 Run a practical fifteen minute forecast
python -m tl_twin.cli train-forecast --input data/demo.jsonl --out models/forecast.joblib
The forecast example needs one asset with exact five-minute samples. Features are the current and previous five receiving active-power samples, plus UTC time-of-day sine/cosine. The label is receiving active power three steps, or fifteen minutes, ahead. This is six samples at five-minute cadence, covering the current time and previous 25 minutes. Metadata records both the six samples and the 25-minute earliest lag.
The model skips gaps and unusable/unknown-topology windows, uses purged chronological partitions and compares with persistence: future P equal to current P. Extend the input features with weather/load forecasts only if their publication time makes them available at the forecast origin. For real data compare seasonal persistence and other simple baselines before selecting a more complex method.
The provided code trains an offline forecasting experiment. To serve forecasts, persist the latest six eligible samples per asset, generate the feature vector in the documented order at the origin time, apply a version-compatible model, store origin_time and target_time separately, and compare the later measurement only after it actually arrives. Add domain/freshness fallback and validate the complete serving path before exposing forecasts as advice.
15 6 Intervals and drift
The examples use a calibration-period empirical 95th-percentile absolute error as a symmetric interval half-width and measure coverage on the later test period. This is a diagnostic interval; time dependence and changing regimes can invalidate coverage. A single claimed 95 percent number is not a guarantee. Report test coverage, interval width, sample count and regime coverage together.
Monitor feature ranges, joint distribution, missingness, raw residual distribution and later forecast error. Retain a physics/persistence fallback. Retraining writes a new candidate version and requires comparison against the current approved model on an untouched later period. Parameter, topology, sensor or adapter changes may require separate retraining regimes.
16 Stage 8 Connect an approved live data source
16 1 Keep source adapters replaceable
Reuse the normalized Measurement contract and quality/alignment checks. A source adapter retrieves approved data, converts units/directions, preserves timing/quality/uncertainty, assigns durable identity and publishes frames. The electrical core should not contain vendor connection logic.
Historical CSV is the first adapter. A later gateway may deliver MQTT directly or translate an authorized SCADA historian/API, OPC UA, IEC 61850 or PMU stream. Select the actual interface with the utility’s OT team. The reference code does not include a vendor-specific utility connector or credentials, and the handbook cannot infer an institution’s network access procedure.
16 2 Implement the adapter from a written mapping
Confirm device/source IDs, endpoint, approved read-only credentials, certificate trust, subscribed channels, cadence, timestamp meaning, quality code meanings, CT/PT scaling and connection-state source. Parse raw source records into canonical signal records and use the alignment stage. Generate deterministic IDs from the source record identity, not an arrival-time random UUID that changes on every retry.
Keep a durable local ingestion journal or gateway buffer so a connection outage can be reconciled. Set bounded retries/backoff, timeout and queue limits, and report the age of the last accepted plant sample. Reconnect does not justify marking buffered old data fresh. Test disconnect, reordered data, bad quality, future timestamps and topology changes using a simulator before connecting the approved stream.
16 3 Transition from replay to live mode
Use a new run ID and separate stream/topic identity. Add narrowly scoped ACL entries for that stream and a distinct adapter account. Set mode live so freshness uses the current UTC clock. Retain data_origin utility for actual measurements; replay/live is a processing mode and does not change data origin.
Change the worker’s Compose command and broker ACL deliberately, redeploy, and confirm the run manifest and topic names. Never publish simulated demonstration frames to a utility stream. Shadow the service against the existing trusted monitoring path, compare known operating conditions and observe performance before any operational reliance.
16 4 Network and access controls
Use the approved OT/IT boundary and read-only gateway route. Deploy TLS for MQTT/API and database traffic where required, validate certificates and use role-based accounts. Put externally accessible API/dashboard services behind the organization’s authenticated access layer; the loopback reference API is intentionally simple and has no standalone user authentication implementation.
Keep credentials outside Git and image layers. Restrict roles to required data and topics. The reference API and Grafana use a read-only PostgreSQL account while schema initialization/worker use the application role. For a shared utility service further separate data ingestion, state writes, read-only views and migrations, and audit access to sensitive raw records.
The project contains no equipment-command path. If a future project adds control, specify a separately authorized command service with identity, limits, interlocks, operator approval, acknowledgement and independent validation. Do not add control by repurposing a dashboard alarm or a measurement topic.
17 Scale and upgrade the implementation
17 1 Calculate the workload
Let N be independently processed assets and f their frames per second. Arrival rate lambda = Nf. With mean processing time t per frame, one worker’s approximate utilization is lambda t before queue, serialization and database overhead. Measure p50/p95/p99 solve and end-to-end latency, backlog, memory and database write time on the target machine. Use headroom against bursts and worst-case solver iterations rather than sizing from mean time alone.
At five-minute cadence, 100 assets create 28800 frames/day. If normalized measurement plus state occupies an illustrative 4 kB/frame, the payload alone is about 115.2 MB/day before indexes, database overhead, WAL, replicas and backups. At 1 Hz the same assets create 8.64 million frames/day and about 34.56 GB/day under that illustrative assumption. Measure actual serialized/database sizes before setting retention.
Rebuilding a small pandapower network per frame is clear and appropriate for the reference pilot. For a validated larger service, cache one network per stable topology/parameter regime and update only approved inputs. Test cache invalidation on every topology, parameter or temperature change. Use solver recycling only after numerical equivalence tests show that required matrices are refreshed correctly.
17 2 Partition independent assets and coordinate connected ones
For independent monitored assets, partition ownership by a stable stream/asset key and give each worker a unique client ID. Preserve transactional identities and deduplication. For one connected network, scale snapshot assembly and downstream analytics separately while retaining one consistent electrical solve per network snapshot, or use a validated partition/coupling method with boundary convergence.
Do not shard electrically adjacent lines into independent voltage solves merely to increase throughput. That changes the physical problem. Multiple network areas require well-defined boundary exchanges and convergence/consistency checks.
The reference outbox has a single publisher owner. For multiple publishers, add a transactional claim/lease state, retry metadata and uniqueness enforcement; PostgreSQL row locking can support a claim pattern. Handle commit races idempotently rather than treating legitimate redelivery as a new physical event.
17 3 Database evolution
SQLite is appropriate for a first local study. PostgreSQL supports the service’s concurrent readers and durable writes. The reference stores canonical UTC strings to keep both databases and ordering behaviour consistent. A larger PostgreSQL deployment should migrate event/processing times to timestamptz, add foreign keys and source constraints, and use JSONB for indexed structured payload queries where justified.
Use the existing composite run/asset/event index for latest/history. Add measurement and outbox indexes from actual query plans. Use time partitioning and retention for high-volume history, archive immutable raw/normalized data separately, and aggregate dashboard queries rather than returning full raw histories to the browser. Test EXPLAIN plans, retention and restoration on realistic volumes.
Introduce a schema migration tool and a schema_version table before changing an established service. Prefer expand/backfill/contract upgrades: add compatible fields, deploy writers/readers that tolerate both versions, backfill historical rows with explicit provenance, then retire old fields only after the transition is complete.
17 4 Contracts and version policy
Keep asset IDs and terminal bus IDs stable. Use new schema versions for incompatible unit, meaning or required-field changes. Preserve adapter_version, parameter_version, topology_version, physics/model_version and run_id as distinct identities. A dashboard edit should not change the physics version; a new resistance or topology assumption should.
Append fields compatibly only when consumers tolerate them. The reference Pydantic contract forbids unrecognized fields, so adding one requires a coordinated schema update or an adapter that translates versions. Publish example messages and contract tests with each release. Maintain an explicit compatibility matrix between source adapters, model versions and API consumers.
17 5 Dependency and container upgrades
Create a branch and a separate clean environment. Update only the intended dependency group, resolve a new lock file and record container image digests. Run numerical reference tests and a representative actual holdout under a new run ID. Compare results, convergence, failures and latency against the previous deployment, then rehearse backup/restore and rollback.
Use a separate volume for major PostgreSQL upgrades and perform an approved dump/restore or pg_upgrade process. Replacing an image’s major tag against an old data volume is not a migration. Retain the previous image/config/locks, immutable datasets and result manifests so the study remains reproducible after an upgrade.
17 6 A practical release gate
Release only when the changed contract, affected physics, failure cases, deployment restart, migration/recovery and representative workload have been checked. Review all utility limits and data permissions that apply to the deployment. Keep pilot scope explicit: scalable interfaces and a measured upgrade path do not imply that high availability or utility production capacity has already been demonstrated.
18 Operation recovery and troubleshooting
18 1 Service observations
Track accepted/rejected/duplicate frames, dead-letter counts and reasons, maximum event age, alignment skew, solved/unavailable/failed counts, solve latency, outbox backlog/age, broker connection/queue state, database latency/disk, dashboard query latency and backup age. Partition these metrics by run/asset/source where useful. A running process with a stale input stream is not a healthy data-connected twin.
For alarms add persistence and hysteresis based on validated thresholds. For example require several consecutive good/fresh exceedances to activate a residual alarm and several below a lower clear threshold to clear it. Missing, suspect, future or stale data produce an unavailable/data-quality condition and must not silently clear an established discrepancy. Persist latch state and last event time so a restart does not reset history. Late/duplicate events must not advance consecutive-event counts.
The reference assessment is a demonstration single-frame classification. Before serving operational alerts, implement and test the persistent alarm state machine, role-based acknowledgement and audit trail appropriate to the utility workflow. Keep disagreement detection separate from physical diagnosis.
18 2 Backup and restore
Retain code/lock/config versions, private deployment secrets, normalized datasets, run manifests, models and database backups. For PostgreSQL the following binary dump avoids PowerShell binary-redirection problems by creating the file inside the database container and copying it out:
docker compose exec -T db pg_dump -U twin_admin -d twin -Fc -f /tmp/twin.dump
docker compose cp db:/tmp/twin.dump backups/twin.dump
Create the local backups directory first. Secure the dump because it contains measurements and model history. Copy it to an independently protected storage location and verify that the copy is readable. Backing up the volume on the same failed disk is not independent recovery.
Rehearse restore in an isolated Compose project/environment with different host ports and new volumes. Initialize the required database roles using the matching private environment, then copy the dump into its database container and restore:
docker compose cp backups/twin.dump db:/tmp/twin.dump
docker compose exec -T db pg_restore -U twin_admin -d twin --clean --if-exists /tmp/twin.dump
These restore commands target the environment selected by the current Compose project. Use them only in the recovery/test environment or an explicitly approved recovery. Stop writers during a planned replacement restore, then verify run counts, representative frame identities, parameter/run manifests, API output and dashboard queries before resuming ingestion.
pg_dump of one database does not include cluster-wide role definitions. Keep the role initialization and deployment secret configuration, or manage role backup separately. Grafana’s own persistent database and broker persistence also need a documented backup/recreation strategy. Provisioned dashboard JSON can recreate the supplied dashboard; locally edited dashboards need their own export/backup.
18 3 Common failures and fixes
Symptom
First check
Corrective action
Python module missing
Selected interpreter and install path
Use project virtual environment and pinned install
No SQL state table
process/db-init completion
Initialize new schema or apply the required migration
API returns 404
Run ID and asset ID
Process frames under the intended run
Model inputs unavailable
Required values and per-signal quality
Fix mapping/data; preserve missingness
Large voltage error
LL/phase units, P/Q directions and branch boundary
Correct interpretation and rerun under a new run ID
Negative measured loss
Direction, timing and meter uncertainty
Investigate original channels
Parameter interval failure
Gaps or overlaps
Correct validity timeline and preserve previous runs
Unknown topology
Connection/switch record
Resolve event-time topology before solving
Solver fails
Input magnitude, topology and physical domain
Inspect case and record failure; do not fabricate output
MQTT authentication fails
Private .env and broker initialization
Check account and ACL; align persisted credentials
Duplicate client disconnects
MQTT client IDs and stream ownership
Give owners unique IDs and avoid overlapping streams
Dashboard empty
Historical time window, run and asset
Select matching time range and inspect database rows
PostgreSQL password mismatch
Existing volume versus changed .env
Restore matching secrets or rotate roles deliberately
State stream incomplete
Outbox backlog and source identities
Reconcile committed states and replay missing frames

Investigate library deprecation warnings during dependency upgrades. The tested numerical examples may emit third-party warnings with pinned packages; they do not justify ignoring new exceptions, nonfinite results or changed numerical behaviour. Preserve test output in the release record.
19 Team execution and final acceptance
19 1 Assign concrete responsibilities
The electrical owner verifies the asset equivalent, signs, parameter sources and model domain. The data owner verifies mapping, timing, quality, lineage and permission. The software owner implements services, contracts, migrations and recovery. The validation owner checks independent observations, uncertainty and acceptance evidence. A small team can share roles, but each assumption still needs a named reviewer in the project record.
Work in short milestones with demonstrable outputs: first numerical reference; imported sample with rejected-row review; complete offline day; replay with restart recovery; actual holdout report; connected-network conservation; each advanced module’s test report. Avoid integrating several new model types before the previous boundary and data assumptions are stable.
19 2 Minimum demonstrable project
For the first complete transmission-line research twin, show the asset diagram and parameter provenance, accepted real/synthetic origin labels, fixed input/validation roles, independent numerical reference, immutable normalized data, separate run IDs, quality/topology/freshness gates, terminal flows/loss/loading, raw residuals and justified assessment rules, database history, read-only API, replay demonstration and backup/recovery evidence.
For a claim of actual-line validation, additionally show authorized utility data, appropriate meter/timing uncertainty, an untouched chronological holdout covering intended conditions and a reviewed conclusion. For advanced claims, show the extra data and model-specific validation; enabling a command in software alone is insufficient.
19 3 Evidence recorded for this reference edition
The reference project has been exercised with synthetic data and an independent nominal pi implementation. A fresh Python 3.12 environment is used for dependency installation and the final automated tests. Verification results, actual package versions and example outputs are included in VERIFICATION.md in the source archive and summarized in the verification appendix.
The complete Docker/Mosquitto/PostgreSQL/Grafana stack cannot be executed in the authoring environment because those runtime services are unavailable there. Its configuration has been reviewed, and the handbook supplies the local startup, persistence, duplicate-delivery and recovery checks that the team must run on its workstation. Do not report those container checks as already passed. No real utility dataset or live gateway has been validated in this edition.
This boundary is deliberate: the handbook enables construction and verification while keeping evidence honest. It cannot supply undisclosed utility parameters, proprietary device access or field measurements. Those inputs determine whether the implemented software can serve the intended actual-line use case.
20 References and source material
The project code, worked calculations and tests are original reference implementation material for this edition. The sources below establish API conventions, platform behaviour and advanced method boundaries. Online software documentation changes; refer to the installed version and retain deployment locks. Access date 2 October 2026.
1. pandapower. Unit systems and conventions. https://pandapower.readthedocs.io/en/latest/about/units.html
2. pandapower. Line element. https://pandapower.readthedocs.io/en/latest/elements/line.html
3. pandapower. Balanced AC power flow and temperature-dependent power flow. https://pandapower.readthedocs.io/en/latest/powerflow/ac.html
4. pandapower. State estimation. https://pandapower.readthedocs.io/en/latest/estimation.html
5. pandapower. Asymmetric three-phase power flow. https://pandapower.readthedocs.io/en/latest/powerflow/ac_3ph.html
6. pandapower. Transformer element and sequence parameters. https://pandapower.readthedocs.io/en/latest/elements/trafo.html
7. pandapower. Short-circuit calculation. https://pandapower.readthedocs.io/en/latest/shortcircuit/run.html
8. Docker Official Images. PostgreSQL image including PostgreSQL 18 data layout. https://hub.docker.com/_/postgres
9. Docker. Control startup and shutdown order in Compose. https://docs.docker.com/compose/how-tos/startup-order/
10. Eclipse Mosquitto. Documentation. https://mosquitto.org/documentation/
11. Docker Official Images. Eclipse Mosquitto image. https://hub.docker.com/_/eclipse-mosquitto
12. Eclipse Paho. Python MQTT client documentation. https://eclipse.dev/paho/files/paho.mqtt.python/html/
13. OASIS. MQTT specifications. https://docs.oasis-open.org/mqtt/mqtt/v3.1.1/mqtt-v3.1.1.html and https://docs.oasis-open.org/mqtt/mqtt/v5.0/mqtt-v5.0.html
14. FastAPI. Tutorial and API documentation. https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/tutorial/
15. Grafana. Docker installation. https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/setup-grafana/installation/docker/
16. Grafana. PostgreSQL data source configuration. https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/datasources/postgres/configure/
17. NIST. Digital twin essential elements. https://www.nist.gov/digital-twins/essential-elements
18. IEEE. IEEE 738 overhead conductor current-temperature relationship standard. https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/10382442
19. IEC. Catalogue of IEC 60287 cable current-rating and IEC 60853 cyclic/emergency-rating parts. https://webstore.iec.ch/en/publication/62420 and https://webstore.iec.ch/en/publication/3711
Use the complete applicable standards and installation-specific engineering guidance for certified ratings and operational decisions. The source list does not imply that the supplied teaching thermal or mechanical examples implement every requirement of those standards.

Appendix A Reconstruction and file inventory
Create the project root and the src/tl_twin, config, tests, tools and deploy subdirectories shown by each file path. Save each source listing exactly as plain UTF-8 text at that relative path. Code paragraphs may wrap visually on a printed page; preserve each logical source line and its indentation. Do not include page headers, footers or source-file labels in a copied file.
Install Python dependencies and the package using Chapter 4, run the tests, generate the dashboard using tools/make_dashboard.py, then follow the model and replay stages. The generated Grafana dashboard JSON need not be typed: its generator listing creates it. docs figures and handbook source are documentation assets and are not required to execute the core package.
The reference archive is the easiest reconstruction route. It contains all listed implementation files, locks, generated dashboard configuration and the handbook source, excluding private data, secrets and fitted model binaries. Rebuilding source from the handbook remains possible without the archive when the Python packages are available.
Source file 01
pyproject.toml
[build-system]
requires = ["setuptools>=75", "wheel"]
build-backend = "setuptools.build_meta"
 
[project]
name = "transmission-line-twin-reference"
version = "2.0.0"
requires-python = ">=3.12,<3.13"
dependencies = [
  "pandapower==3.5.5", "numpy==2.3.5", "scipy==1.17.0",
  "pandas==2.3.3", "pydantic==2.13.5", "fastapi==0.115.12",
  "uvicorn==0.34.2", "SQLAlchemy==2.0.41",
  "psycopg[binary]==3.2.9", "paho-mqtt==2.1.0", "tzdata==2026.4"
]
 
[project.optional-dependencies]
test = ["pytest==8.3.5", "httpx==0.28.1"]
ml = ["scikit-learn==1.7.2", "joblib==1.5.2"]
 
[project.scripts]
tl-twin = "tl_twin.cli:main"
 
[tool.setuptools.packages.find]
where = ["src"]
 
[tool.pytest.ini_options]
testpaths = ["tests"]
addopts = "-q"

Source file 02
requirements.lock
annotated-types==0.8.0
anyio==4.15.1
cachebox==5.2.3
click==8.5.0
colorama==0.4.6
deepdiff==9.1.0
fastapi==0.115.12
geojson==3.3.0
greenlet==3.5.6
h11==0.16.0
idna==3.20
mypy_extensions==1.1.0
networkx==3.7
numpy==2.3.5
orderly-set==5.5.0
packaging==26.3
paho-mqtt==2.1.0
pandapower==3.5.5
pandas==2.3.3
pandera==0.33.1
psycopg==3.2.9
psycopg-binary==3.2.9
pydantic==2.13.5
pydantic_core==2.46.5
python-dateutil==2.9.0.post0
pytz==2026.4
scipy==1.17.0
six==1.17.0
SQLAlchemy==2.0.41
starlette==0.46.2
tqdm==4.70.1
typeguard==4.6.0
typing_extensions==4.16.0
typing-inspect==0.9.0
typing-inspection==0.4.4
tzdata==2026.4
uvicorn==0.34.2

Source file 03
requirements-dev.lock
certifi==2026.7.22
httpcore==1.0.9
httpx==0.28.1
iniconfig==2.3.0
joblib==1.5.2
pluggy==1.6.0
pytest==8.3.5
scikit-learn==1.7.2
threadpoolctl==3.7.0

Source file 04
src/tl_twin/__init__.py
"""Research reference implementation. No grid command interface."""
__version__ = "2.0.0"

Source file 05
src/tl_twin/contracts.py
from datetime import datetime, timezone
from typing import Literal
from pydantic import BaseModel, ConfigDict, Field, field_validator
 
Quality = Literal["GOOD", "SUSPECT", "BAD", "MISSING"]
INPUTS = ("vs_ll_kv", "p_recv_mw", "q_recv_mvar")
OUTPUTS = ("vr_ll_kv", "ir_a", "is_a", "p_send_mw", "q_send_mvar")
 
 
def utc(value: datetime) -> datetime:
    if value.tzinfo is None or value.utcoffset() is None:
        raise ValueError("An explicit UTC offset or timezone is required")
    return value.astimezone(timezone.utc)
 
 
class Measurement(BaseModel):
    model_config = ConfigDict(extra="forbid", allow_inf_nan=False)
    schema_version: Literal["line.measurement.v1"] = "line.measurement.v1"
    message_id: str = Field(min_length=1, max_length=128)
    asset_id: str = Field(min_length=1, max_length=128, pattern=r"^[A-Za-z0-9_.-]+$")
    event_time: datetime
    source_id: str = Field(min_length=1, max_length=128)
    dataset_id: str = Field(min_length=1, max_length=128)
    data_origin: Literal["synthetic", "utility", "laboratory"]
    sequence_no: int = Field(ge=0)
    connection_state: Literal[
        "CONNECTED", "RECEIVING_OPEN", "DEENERGIZED", "UNKNOWN"
    ] = "UNKNOWN"
    vs_ll_kv: float | None = Field(default=None, ge=0)
    vr_ll_kv: float | None = Field(default=None, ge=0)
    is_a: float | None = Field(default=None, ge=0)
    ir_a: float | None = Field(default=None, ge=0)
    p_send_mw: float | None = None
    q_send_mvar: float | None = None
    p_recv_mw: float | None = None
    q_recv_mvar: float | None = None
    frequency_hz: float | None = Field(default=None, gt=0)
    conductor_temp_c: float | None = None
    signal_quality: dict[str, Quality] = Field(default_factory=dict)
    uncertainty: dict[str, float] = Field(default_factory=dict)
    original_timestamp: str | None = None
    source_metadata: dict = Field(default_factory=dict)
 
    @field_validator("event_time")
    @classmethod
    def normalize_time(cls, value):
        return utc(value)
 
    @field_validator("uncertainty")
    @classmethod
    def positive_sigmas(cls, values):
        import math
        if any(not math.isfinite(v) or v <= 0 for v in values.values()):
            raise ValueError("Measurement standard deviations must be positive")
        return values
 
    def usable(self, key: str) -> bool:
        return (getattr(self, key, None) is not None
                and self.signal_quality.get(key, "GOOD") == "GOOD")
 
 
class LineConfig(BaseModel):
    model_config = ConfigDict(extra="forbid", allow_inf_nan=False)
    asset_id: str
    parameter_version: str
    topology_version: str
    valid_from: datetime
    valid_to: datetime | None = None
    from_bus: str
    to_bus: str
    nominal_kv: float = Field(gt=0)
    nominal_frequency_hz: float = Field(default=50.0, gt=0)
    length_km: float = Field(gt=0)
    r_ohm_per_km: float = Field(ge=0)
    x_ohm_per_km: float = Field(gt=0)
    c_nf_per_km: float = Field(ge=0)
    g_us_per_km: float = Field(default=0.0, ge=0)
    max_i_ka: float = Field(gt=0)
    parallel_circuits: int = Field(default=1, ge=1)
    bundle_count_per_phase: int = Field(default=1, ge=1)
    derating_factor: float = Field(default=1.0, gt=0, le=1)
    line_type: Literal["ol", "cs"] = "ol"
    in_service: bool = True
    reference_temperature_c: float = 20.0
    alpha_per_c: float = Field(default=0.00403, ge=0)
    use_measured_temperature: bool = False
    parameter_source: str
    voltage_warn_kv: float | None = Field(default=None, gt=0)
    voltage_alarm_kv: float | None = Field(default=None, gt=0)
 
    @field_validator("valid_from", "valid_to")
    @classmethod
    def normalize_time(cls, value):
        return utc(value) if value is not None else value
 
 
def load_configs(path: str) -> list[LineConfig]:
    import json
    with open(path, encoding="utf-8") as handle:
        configs = [LineConfig.model_validate(x) for x in json.load(handle)]
    for cfg in configs:
        if cfg.from_bus == cfg.to_bus:
            raise ValueError("Line terminals must refer to different buses")
        if cfg.valid_to is not None and cfg.valid_to <= cfg.valid_from:
            raise ValueError("Invalid parameter validity interval")
        if (cfg.voltage_warn_kv and cfg.voltage_alarm_kv
                and cfg.voltage_alarm_kv <= cfg.voltage_warn_kv):
            raise ValueError("Alarm limit must exceed warning limit")
    return configs
 
 
def parameter_for(configs, asset_id, when):
    candidates = [c for c in configs if c.asset_id == asset_id
                  and c.valid_from <= when
                  and (c.valid_to is None or when < c.valid_to)]
    if len(candidates) != 1:
        raise ValueError("Exactly one parameter version must cover event time")
    return candidates[0]

Source file 06
src/tl_twin/physics.py
"""Balanced steady state. Receiving power is positive OUT of the line."""
import math
import numpy as np
import pandapower as pp
from scipy.optimize import root
from .contracts import LineConfig
 
MODEL_VERSION = "balanced.pi.pandapower3.5.5.v1"
 
 
def resistance(cfg, temperature_c=None):
    factor = 1.0 if temperature_c is None else (
        1 + cfg.alpha_per_c * (temperature_c - cfg.reference_temperature_c)
    )
    if factor <= 0:
        raise ValueError("Temperature relationship gives nonpositive resistance")
    return cfg.r_ohm_per_km * factor
 
 
def build_pair(cfg: LineConfig, vs_ll_kv, p_recv_mw, q_recv_mvar,
               temperature_c=None):
    net = pp.create_empty_network(sn_mva=100, f_hz=cfg.nominal_frequency_hz)
    bus_s = pp.create_bus(net, cfg.nominal_kv, name=cfg.from_bus)
    bus_r = pp.create_bus(net, cfg.nominal_kv, name=cfg.to_bus)
    pp.create_ext_grid(net, bus_s, vm_pu=vs_ll_kv / cfg.nominal_kv,
                       va_degree=0.0)
    line = pp.create_line_from_parameters(
        net, bus_s, bus_r, cfg.length_km,
        resistance(cfg, temperature_c), cfg.x_ohm_per_km,
        cfg.c_nf_per_km, cfg.max_i_ka, name=cfg.asset_id,
        g_us_per_km=cfg.g_us_per_km, parallel=cfg.parallel_circuits,
        df=cfg.derating_factor, in_service=cfg.in_service, type=cfg.line_type
    )
    # This is a boundary equivalent for the selected branch, not substation load.
    pp.create_load(net, bus_r, p_mw=p_recv_mw, q_mvar=q_recv_mvar,
                   name="receiving boundary equivalent")
    return net, bus_s, bus_r, line
 
 
def solve_line(cfg, vs_ll_kv, p_recv_mw, q_recv_mvar, temperature_c=None):
    if not cfg.in_service:
        raise ValueError("Inactive line cannot be solved as a connected branch")
    net, bs, br, line = build_pair(
        cfg, vs_ll_kv, p_recv_mw, q_recv_mvar, temperature_c
    )
    pp.runpp(net, calculate_voltage_angles=True, init="flat", numba=False,
             max_iteration=40, tolerance_mva=1e-9, lightsim2grid=False)
    r = net.res_line.loc[line]
    result = {
        "vr_ll_kv": float(net.res_bus.at[br, "vm_pu"] * cfg.nominal_kv),
        "vr_angle_deg": float(net.res_bus.at[br, "va_degree"]),
        "is_a": float(r.i_from_ka * 1000),
        "ir_a": float(r.i_to_ka * 1000),
        "p_send_mw": float(r.p_from_mw),
        "q_send_mvar": float(r.q_from_mvar),
        "p_recv_mw": float(-r.p_to_mw),
        "q_recv_mvar": float(-r.q_to_mvar),
        "loss_mw": float(r.pl_mw),
        "q_net_absorption_mvar": float(r.ql_mvar),
        "loading_percent": float(r.loading_percent),
        "r_used_ohm_per_km": resistance(cfg, temperature_c),
        "model_version": MODEL_VERSION
    }
    if any(not math.isfinite(v) for v in result.values()
           if isinstance(v, (float, int))):
        raise ValueError("Nonfinite model output")
    return result
 
 
def solve_abcd(cfg, vs_ll_kv, p_recv_mw, q_recv_mvar, temperature_c=None):
    """Independent per-phase check of the nominal pi circuit."""
    z = complex(resistance(cfg, temperature_c), cfg.x_ohm_per_km)
    z *= cfg.length_km / cfg.parallel_circuits
    y = complex(cfg.g_us_per_km * 1e-6,
                2 * np.pi * cfg.nominal_frequency_hz * cfg.c_nf_per_km * 1e-9)
    y *= cfg.length_km * cfg.parallel_circuits
    vs = vs_ll_kv * 1000 / np.sqrt(3)
    sr = complex(p_recv_mw, q_recv_mvar) * 1e6
 
    def equations(x):
        vr = complex(x[0], x[1])
        ir = (vs - vr) / z - y * vr / 2
        mismatch = (3 * vr * ir.conjugate() - sr) / 1e6
        return [mismatch.real, mismatch.imag]
 
    solved = root(equations, [vs * 0.98, -vs * 0.03])
    if not solved.success or np.linalg.norm(equations(solved.x)) > 1e-6:
        raise ValueError("Independent line calculation did not converge")
    vr = complex(*solved.x)
    ir = (vs - vr) / z - y * vr / 2
    is_ = (vs - vr) / z + y * vs / 2
    ss = 3 * vs * is_.conjugate()
    a = 1 + y * z / 2
    b = z
    c = y * (1 + y * z / 4)
    return {
        "vr_ll_kv": abs(vr) * np.sqrt(3) / 1000,
        "vr_angle_deg": float(np.angle(vr, deg=True)),
        "ir_a": abs(ir), "is_a": abs(is_),
        "p_send_mw": ss.real / 1e6, "q_send_mvar": ss.imag / 1e6,
        "loss_mw": (ss.real - sr.real) / 1e6,
        "abcd_determinant_error": abs(a * a - b * c - 1),
        "voltage_reconstruction_error_v": abs(a * vr + b * ir - vs)
    }

Source file 07
src/tl_twin/alignment.py
"""As of alignment before the frame enters the electrical twin."""
from datetime import datetime
from .contracts import Measurement, utc
from .importer import NUMERIC
 
 
def assemble_frame(envelope, samples, max_age_s=10, max_skew_s=2):
    """Samples are canonical units: signal -> list of time, value, quality, sigma."""
    asof = utc(datetime.fromisoformat(envelope["event_time"]))
    output = dict(envelope)
    for field in NUMERIC:
        output.pop(field, None)
    output["signal_quality"], output["uncertainty"] = {}, {}
    times = {}
    for signal, records in samples.items():
        parsed = [(utc(datetime.fromisoformat(r["event_time"])), r) for r in records]
        eligible = [(t, r) for t, r in parsed if t <= asof]
        if not eligible:
            output[signal] = None
            output["signal_quality"][signal] = "MISSING"
            continue
        when, record = max(eligible, key=lambda pair: pair[0])
        times[signal] = when.isoformat()
        age = (asof - when).total_seconds()
        output[signal] = record["value"] if age <= max_age_s else None
        output["signal_quality"][signal] = (
            record.get("quality", "SUSPECT") if age <= max_age_s else "MISSING")
        if "sigma" in record:
            output["uncertainty"][signal] = record["sigma"]
    selected = [datetime.fromisoformat(t) for k,t in times.items()
                if output["signal_quality"].get(k) == "GOOD"]
    skew = (max(selected)-min(selected)).total_seconds() if selected else None
    if skew is not None and skew > max_skew_s:
        for k in output["signal_quality"]:
            if output["signal_quality"][k] == "GOOD":
                output["signal_quality"][k] = "SUSPECT"
    output["source_metadata"] = {**output.get("source_metadata", {}),
        "per_signal_event_time": times, "alignment_skew_s": skew,
        "max_age_s": max_age_s, "max_skew_s": max_skew_s}
    return Measurement.model_validate(output)

Source file 08
src/tl_twin/importer.py
"""Strict CSV adapter; immutable dataset hash and original timestamps retained."""
import csv
import hashlib
import json
from datetime import datetime
from pathlib import Path
from zoneinfo import ZoneInfo
from .contracts import Measurement
 
NUMERIC = {"vs_ll_kv", "vr_ll_kv", "is_a", "ir_a", "p_send_mw", "q_send_mvar",
           "p_recv_mw", "q_recv_mvar", "frequency_hz", "conductor_temp_c"}
 
 
def import_csv(csv_path, mapping_path, output_path):
    raw = Path(csv_path).read_bytes()
    dataset = "sha256:" + hashlib.sha256(raw).hexdigest()
    mapping = json.loads(Path(mapping_path).read_text(encoding="utf-8"))
    mapping_hash = hashlib.sha256(Path(mapping_path).read_bytes()).hexdigest()
    timezone = ZoneInfo(mapping["timezone"])
    records, errors = [], []
    with open(csv_path, encoding="utf-8-sig", newline="") as handle:
        for sequence, row in enumerate(csv.DictReader(handle)):
            try:
                original = row[mapping["timestamp_column"]]
                when = datetime.fromisoformat(original)
                if when.tzinfo is None:
                    when = when.replace(tzinfo=timezone)
                base = {"message_id": hashlib.sha256(
                            f"{dataset}:{mapping_hash}:{sequence}".encode()).hexdigest(),
                        "dataset_id": dataset, "sequence_no": sequence,
                        "event_time": when, "original_timestamp": original,
                        "asset_id": row.get(mapping.get("asset_column", ""))
                            or mapping["asset_id"],
                        "source_id": mapping["source_id"] + ".map." + mapping_hash[:12],
                        "data_origin": mapping["data_origin"],
                        "connection_state": row.get(mapping.get("state_column", ""))
                            or mapping.get("connection_state", "UNKNOWN"),
                        "signal_quality": {}, "uncertainty": {},
                        "source_metadata": {"row_number": sequence + 2,
                                            "source_file_sha256": dataset[7:],
                                            "logical_source_id": mapping["source_id"],
                                            "adapter_version": "csv.adapter.v1",
                                            "mapping_sha256": mapping_hash}}
                for signal, spec in mapping["signals"].items():
                    if signal not in NUMERIC:
                        raise ValueError(f"Unknown numeric signal {signal}")
                    value = row.get(spec["column"], "").strip()
                    base[signal] = (None if value == "" else
                        float(value) * spec.get("scale", 1) + spec.get("offset", 0))
                    quality_column = spec.get("quality_column")
                    if quality_column:
                        raw_quality = row.get(quality_column, "")
                        base["signal_quality"][signal] = spec.get("quality_map", {}).get(
                            raw_quality, "SUSPECT")
                    else:
                        base["signal_quality"][signal] = (
                            "GOOD" if value else "MISSING")
                    if "sigma" in spec:
                        base["uncertainty"][signal] = spec["sigma"]
                records.append(Measurement.model_validate(base))
            except Exception as exc:
                errors.append({"row_number": sequence + 2,
                               "reason": str(exc), "raw": row})
    records.sort(key=lambda m: (m.event_time, m.asset_id, m.sequence_no))
    Path(output_path).parent.mkdir(parents=True, exist_ok=True)
    Path(output_path).write_text("".join(
        m.model_dump_json() + "\n" for m in records), encoding="utf-8")
    Path(str(output_path) + ".rejects.json").write_text(
        json.dumps(errors, indent=2), encoding="utf-8")
    Path(str(output_path) + ".manifest.json").write_text(json.dumps({
        "dataset_id": dataset, "accepted_rows": len(records),
        "rejected_rows": len(errors), "mapping": mapping,
        "mapping_sha256": mapping_hash
    }, indent=2), encoding="utf-8")
    return len(records), len(errors)

Source file 09
src/tl_twin/storage.py
"""Portable persistence; event strings are canonical UTC for stable ordering."""
import hashlib
import json
from datetime import datetime, timezone
from sqlalchemy import (JSON, Column, Float, Integer, Index, MetaData, String, Table,
                        Text, UniqueConstraint, create_engine, select)
from sqlalchemy.exc import IntegrityError
 
metadata = MetaData()
runs = Table("runs", metadata,
    Column("run_id", String(128), primary_key=True),
    Column("mode", String(16), nullable=False),
    Column("created_at", String(40), nullable=False),
    Column("manifest", JSON, nullable=False))
parameters = Table("parameters", metadata,
    Column("asset_id", String(128), primary_key=True),
    Column("parameter_version", String(128), primary_key=True),
    Column("payload_hash", String(64), nullable=False),
    Column("payload", JSON, nullable=False))
measurements = Table("measurements", metadata,
    Column("message_id", String(128), primary_key=True),
    Column("dataset_id", String(128), nullable=False),
    Column("source_id", String(128), nullable=False),
    Column("asset_id", String(128), nullable=False, index=True),
    Column("event_time", String(40), nullable=False, index=True),
    Column("sequence_no", Integer, nullable=False),
    Column("received_at", String(40), nullable=False),
    Column("payload_hash", String(64), nullable=False),
    Column("payload", JSON, nullable=False),
    UniqueConstraint("dataset_id", "source_id", "asset_id", "event_time",
                     "sequence_no", name="uq_source_frame"))
states = Table("twin_states", metadata,
    Column("run_id", String(128), primary_key=True),
    Column("message_id", String(128), primary_key=True),
    Column("asset_id", String(128), nullable=False, index=True),
    Column("event_time", String(40), nullable=False, index=True),
    Column("received_at", String(40), nullable=False),
    Column("processed_at", String(40), nullable=False),
    Column("clock_time", String(40), nullable=False),
    Column("dataset_id", String(128), nullable=False),
    Column("parameter_version", String(128)),
    Column("topology_version", String(128)),
    Column("model_version", String(128)),
    Column("model_status", String(32), nullable=False),
    Column("assessment", String(32), nullable=False),
    Column("data_origin", String(16), nullable=False),
    Column("vr_measured_kv", Float), Column("vr_predicted_kv", Float),
    Column("vr_residual_kv", Float), Column("loss_predicted_mw", Float),
    Column("loading_percent", Float), Column("payload", JSON, nullable=False),
    Column("published_at", String(40)))
dead_letters = Table("dead_letters", metadata,
    Column("id", Integer, primary_key=True, autoincrement=True),
    Column("created_at", String(40), nullable=False),
    Column("reason", Text, nullable=False), Column("raw", Text, nullable=False))
Index("ix_states_run_asset_event", states.c.run_id, states.c.asset_id, states.c.event_time)
Index("ix_states_outbox", states.c.run_id, states.c.published_at)
 
 
def timestamp(value=None):
    value = value or datetime.now(timezone.utc)
    return value.astimezone(timezone.utc).isoformat(timespec="microseconds")
 
 
def canonical(payload):
    return json.dumps(payload, sort_keys=True, separators=(",", ":"),
                      allow_nan=False)
 
 
def digest(payload):
    return hashlib.sha256(canonical(payload).encode()).hexdigest()
 
 
class Store:
    def __init__(self, url):
        options = {"pool_pre_ping": True}
        if url.startswith("sqlite"):
            options["connect_args"] = {"check_same_thread": False}
        self.engine = create_engine(url, **options)
 
    def init(self):
        # create_all initializes a NEW schema. It is not a migration engine.
        metadata.create_all(self.engine)
 
    def ensure_run(self, run_id, mode, manifest):
        if mode not in ("offline", "replay", "live"):
            raise ValueError("Invalid run mode")
        with self.engine.begin() as conn:
            old = conn.execute(select(runs).where(
                runs.c.run_id == run_id)).mappings().first()
            if old:
                if old["mode"] != mode or old["manifest"] != manifest:
                    raise ValueError("Run ID already belongs to another manifest")
                return
            conn.execute(runs.insert().values(run_id=run_id, mode=mode,
                         created_at=timestamp(), manifest=manifest))
 
    def register_parameters(self, configs):
        with self.engine.begin() as conn:
            for cfg in configs:
                # Validity intervals belong to each run's timeline manifest.
                # Closing an interval must not change immutable electrical values.
                payload = cfg.model_dump(mode="json", exclude={"valid_from", "valid_to"})
                old = conn.execute(select(parameters).where(
                    parameters.c.asset_id == cfg.asset_id,
                    parameters.c.parameter_version == cfg.parameter_version
                )).mappings().first()
                if old and old["payload_hash"] != digest(payload):
                    raise ValueError("Parameter version is immutable; use a new ID")
                if not old:
                    conn.execute(parameters.insert().values(
                        asset_id=cfg.asset_id,
                        parameter_version=cfg.parameter_version,
                        payload_hash=digest(payload), payload=payload))
 
    def processed(self, run_id, message_id):
        with self.engine.connect() as conn:
            return conn.execute(select(states.c.message_id).where(
                states.c.run_id == run_id,
                states.c.message_id == message_id)).first() is not None
 
    def commit_frame(self, measurement, state):
        payload = measurement.model_dump(mode="json")
        frame_hash = digest(payload)
        try:
            with self.engine.begin() as conn:
                old = conn.execute(select(measurements).where(
                    measurements.c.message_id == measurement.message_id
                )).mappings().first()
                if old and old["payload_hash"] != frame_hash:
                    raise ValueError("Message ID reused with different content")
                if not old:
                    conn.execute(measurements.insert().values(
                        message_id=measurement.message_id,
                        dataset_id=measurement.dataset_id,
                        source_id=measurement.source_id,
                        asset_id=measurement.asset_id,
                        event_time=timestamp(measurement.event_time),
                        sequence_no=measurement.sequence_no,
                        received_at=state["received_at"],
                        payload_hash=frame_hash, payload=payload))
                existing = conn.execute(select(states.c.message_id).where(
                    states.c.run_id == state["run_id"],
                    states.c.message_id == measurement.message_id)).first()
                if existing:
                    return False
                prediction = state.get("prediction") or {}
                residual = state.get("residual_physics") or {}
                conn.execute(states.insert().values(
                    run_id=state["run_id"], message_id=measurement.message_id,
                    asset_id=measurement.asset_id,
                    event_time=timestamp(measurement.event_time),
                    received_at=state["received_at"],
                    processed_at=state["processed_at"], clock_time=state["clock_time"],
                    dataset_id=measurement.dataset_id,
                    parameter_version=state.get("parameter_version"),
                    topology_version=state.get("topology_version"),
                    model_version=prediction.get("model_version"),
                    model_status=state["model_status"],
                    assessment=state["assessment"], data_origin=measurement.data_origin,
                    vr_measured_kv=measurement.vr_ll_kv,
                    vr_predicted_kv=prediction.get("vr_ll_kv"),
                    vr_residual_kv=residual.get("vr_ll_kv"),
                    loss_predicted_mw=prediction.get("loss_mw"),
                    loading_percent=prediction.get("loading_percent"), payload=state))
                return True
        except IntegrityError as exc:
            # Single owner per stream is the reference deployment contract.
            # A race or alternate ID for a natural duplicate needs inspection.
            raise ValueError("Conflicting frame identity or concurrent ownership") from exc
 
    def dead_letter(self, reason, raw):
        with self.engine.begin() as conn:
            conn.execute(dead_letters.insert().values(
                created_at=timestamp(), reason=str(reason), raw=raw))
 
    def history(self, run_id, asset_id=None, limit=1000):
        query = select(states).where(states.c.run_id == run_id)
        if asset_id:
            query = query.where(states.c.asset_id == asset_id)
        query = query.order_by(states.c.event_time.desc(),
                               states.c.message_id.desc()).limit(limit)
        with self.engine.connect() as conn:
            return [dict(r) for r in conn.execute(query).mappings()]
 
    def outbox(self, run_id, limit=100):
        with self.engine.connect() as conn:
            return [dict(r) for r in conn.execute(select(states).where(
                states.c.run_id == run_id, states.c.published_at.is_(None)
            ).order_by(states.c.event_time).limit(limit)).mappings()]
 
    def mark_published(self, run_id, message_id):
        with self.engine.begin() as conn:
            conn.execute(states.update().where(states.c.run_id == run_id,
                states.c.message_id == message_id).values(published_at=timestamp()))

Source file 10
src/tl_twin/twin.py
import math
from datetime import datetime, timezone
from .contracts import INPUTS, OUTPUTS, parameter_for, utc
from .physics import solve_line
from .storage import timestamp
 
 
def evaluate(m, configs, run_id, mode, clock_time=None, max_age_s=120):
    """Physics inputs are Vs and receiving P/Q; other signals are held out."""
    now = utc(clock_time or (m.event_time if mode != "live"
                            else datetime.now(timezone.utc)))
    age = (now - m.event_time).total_seconds()
    s = {
        "schema_version": "line.state.v1", "run_id": run_id,
        "message_id": m.message_id, "asset_id": m.asset_id,
        "event_time": timestamp(m.event_time), "received_at": timestamp(),
        "processed_at": timestamp(), "clock_time": timestamp(now),
        "dataset_id": m.dataset_id, "data_origin": m.data_origin,
        "model_status": "INPUTS_INSUFFICIENT", "assessment": "UNASSESSED",
        "flags": [], "freshness": "FRESH", "age_s": age,
        "prediction": None, "residual_physics": {},
        "signal_quality": m.signal_quality, "uncertainty": m.uncertainty,
        "connection_state": m.connection_state,
    }
    if age > max_age_s:
        s["freshness"] = "STALE"
        s["flags"].append("STALE_FOR_CURRENT_CLOCK")
    if age < -5:
        s["freshness"] = "FUTURE"
        s["flags"].append("EVENT_IN_FUTURE")
    try:
        cfg = parameter_for(configs, m.asset_id, m.event_time)
    except ValueError as exc:
        s["model_status"] = "PARAMETERS_UNAVAILABLE"
        s["flags"].append(str(exc))
        return s
    s.update(parameter_version=cfg.parameter_version,
             topology_version=cfg.topology_version)
    if m.connection_state in ("UNKNOWN", "DEENERGIZED"):
        s["model_status"] = ("TOPOLOGY_UNKNOWN" if m.connection_state == "UNKNOWN"
                              else "NOT_ENERGIZED")
        return s
    if not cfg.in_service:
        s["model_status"] = "TOPOLOGY_MISMATCH"
        return s
    required = ("vs_ll_kv",) if m.connection_state == "RECEIVING_OPEN" else INPUTS
    if not all(m.usable(k) for k in required):
        s["flags"].append("MISSING_OR_UNUSABLE_BOUNDARY_INPUT")
        return s
    if m.vs_ll_kv <= 0:
        s["model_status"] = "TOPOLOGY_MISMATCH"
        s["flags"].append("ENERGIZED_STATE_WITH_ZERO_SENDING_VOLTAGE")
        return s
    if m.usable("frequency_hz") and abs(
            m.frequency_hz - cfg.nominal_frequency_hz) > 0.5:
        s["model_status"] = "MODEL_DOMAIN_EXCEEDED"
        return s
    temp = None
    if cfg.use_measured_temperature:
        if not m.usable("conductor_temp_c"):
            s["flags"].append("CONDUCTOR_TEMPERATURE_REQUIRED")
            return s
        temp = m.conductor_temp_c
    p, q = (0.0, 0.0) if m.connection_state == "RECEIVING_OPEN" else (
        m.p_recv_mw, m.q_recv_mvar)
    if m.connection_state == "RECEIVING_OPEN" and any(
        m.usable(k) and abs(getattr(m, k)) > 0.01
        for k in ("p_recv_mw", "q_recv_mvar")
    ):
        s["model_status"] = "TOPOLOGY_MISMATCH"
        s["flags"].append("OPEN_END_HAS_NONZERO_RECEIVING_POWER")
        return s
    try:
        predicted = solve_line(cfg, m.vs_ll_kv, p, q, temp)
    except Exception as exc:
        s["model_status"] = "MODEL_FAILED"
        s["flags"].append(f"{type(exc).__name__}: {exc}")
        return s
    s["prediction"] = predicted
    s["model_status"] = "SOLVED"
    for k in OUTPUTS:
        if m.usable(k):
            s["residual_physics"][k] = getattr(m, k) - predicted[k]
    # A measurement sigma alone is NOT total model uncertainty.
    s["measurement_sigma_units"] = "same units as corresponding signal"
    if m.usable("p_send_mw") and m.usable("p_recv_mw"):
        measured_loss = m.p_send_mw - m.p_recv_mw
        s["measured_loss_mw"] = measured_loss
        s["loss_residual_mw"] = measured_loss - predicted["loss_mw"]
        if "p_send_mw" in m.uncertainty and "p_recv_mw" in m.uncertainty:
            # Assumes independent errors; include covariance if meters share errors.
            s["loss_measurement_sigma_mw"] = math.hypot(
                m.uncertainty["p_send_mw"], m.uncertainty["p_recv_mw"])
    for suffix, vkey, ikey, pkey, qkey in [
        ("send", "vs_ll_kv", "is_a", "p_send_mw", "q_send_mvar"),
        ("recv", "vr_ll_kv", "ir_a", "p_recv_mw", "q_recv_mvar")]:
        if all(m.usable(k) for k in (vkey, ikey, pkey, qkey)):
            vi = math.sqrt(3) * getattr(m, vkey) * getattr(m, ikey) / 1000
            pq = math.hypot(getattr(m, pkey), getattr(m, qkey))
            # Demo tolerance, not a substitute for CT/PT uncertainty propagation.
            if abs(vi - pq) > max(0.2, 0.03 * pq):
                s["flags"].append(f"POWER_CURRENT_INCONSISTENT_{suffix.upper()}")
    residual = s["residual_physics"].get("vr_ll_kv")
    if residual is not None and cfg.voltage_warn_kv and cfg.voltage_alarm_kv:
        s["assessment"] = ("ALARM" if abs(residual) >= cfg.voltage_alarm_kv
            else "WARNING" if abs(residual) >= cfg.voltage_warn_kv else "WITHIN_LIMIT")
    if s["flags"] or any(q != "GOOD" for q in m.signal_quality.values()):
        s["assessment"] = "DATA_REVIEW"
    if s["freshness"] != "FRESH":
        s["assessment"] = "STALE_DATA"
    return s

Source file 11
src/tl_twin/cli.py
import argparse
import hashlib
import importlib.metadata
import json
import math
import os
from datetime import datetime, timedelta, timezone
from pathlib import Path
import numpy as np
from .contracts import Measurement, load_configs
from .physics import solve_abcd
from .storage import Store
from .twin import evaluate
 
 
def generate(config_path, output_path, rows=288):
    cfg = load_configs(config_path)[0]
    rng = np.random.default_rng(42)
    start = datetime(2026, 1, 1, tzinfo=timezone.utc)
    frames = []
    for i in range(rows):
        vs = 132.1 + 0.5 * math.sin(2 * math.pi * i / 288)
        p = 66.8 + 20 * math.sin(2 * math.pi * i / 288)
        q = 13.5 + 4 * math.sin(2 * math.pi * i / 288)
        prediction = solve_abcd(cfg, vs, p, q)
        # Reproducible sensor bias/noise for software exercises, not field evidence.
        observed = {k: prediction[k] for k in
                    ("vr_ll_kv", "ir_a", "is_a", "p_send_mw", "q_send_mvar")}
        observed["vr_ll_kv"] += -0.12 + 0.001 * (p - 66.8) + rng.normal(0, 0.02)
        observed["p_send_mw"] += rng.normal(0, 0.03)
        m = Measurement(message_id=f"synthetic-v2-{i:06}", asset_id=cfg.asset_id,
            event_time=start + timedelta(minutes=5 * i), source_id="demo.generator.v2",
            dataset_id="synthetic.day.v2", data_origin="synthetic", sequence_no=i,
            connection_state="CONNECTED", vs_ll_kv=vs, p_recv_mw=p, q_recv_mvar=q,
            frequency_hz=50, signal_quality={k: "GOOD" for k in
                ("vs_ll_kv", "p_recv_mw", "q_recv_mvar", *observed)},
            uncertainty={"vr_ll_kv": 0.02, "p_send_mw": 0.03,
                         "p_recv_mw": 0.03}, **observed)
        frames.append(m)
    Path(output_path).parent.mkdir(parents=True, exist_ok=True)
    Path(output_path).write_text("".join(m.model_dump_json() + "\n"
        for m in frames), encoding="utf-8")
    return len(frames)
 
 
def manifest(configs):
    return {"code_version": "2.0.0", "schema_version": "line.state.v1",
        "dependencies": {name: importlib.metadata.version(name) for name in
                         ("pandapower", "pydantic", "SQLAlchemy")},
        "configs": [cfg.model_dump(mode="json") for cfg in configs],
        "input_roles": ["vs_ll_kv", "p_recv_mw", "q_recv_mvar"],
        "validation_roles": ["vr_ll_kv", "ir_a", "is_a", "p_send_mw", "q_send_mvar"]}
 
 
def process(path, store, configs, run_id, mode="offline"):
    store.init()
    store.register_parameters(configs)
    store.ensure_run(run_id, mode, manifest(configs))
    accepted = rejected = duplicate = 0
    for line in Path(path).read_text(encoding="utf-8").splitlines():
        if not line.strip():
            continue
        try:
            m = Measurement.model_validate_json(line)
            state = evaluate(m, configs, run_id, mode)
            state["mode"] = mode
            if store.commit_frame(m, state):
                accepted += 1
            else:
                duplicate += 1
        except ValueError as exc:
            store.dead_letter(exc, line)
            rejected += 1
    return {"accepted": accepted, "duplicate": duplicate, "rejected": rejected}
 
 
def report(store, run_id):
    rows = store.history(run_id, limit=100000)
    good = [r["payload"] for r in rows if r["model_status"] == "SOLVED"]
    keys = ("vr_ll_kv", "ir_a", "is_a", "p_send_mw", "q_send_mvar")
    result = {"run_id": run_id, "states": len(rows), "solved": len(good),
              "origin_counts": {x: sum(r["data_origin"] == x for r in rows)
                                for x in ("synthetic", "utility", "laboratory")}}
    for key in keys:
        errors = np.array([s["residual_physics"][key] for s in good
                           if key in s["residual_physics"]])
        if len(errors):
            result[key] = {"count": len(errors), "bias": float(errors.mean()),
                "mae": float(np.abs(errors).mean()),
                "rmse": float(np.sqrt(np.mean(errors ** 2)))}
    return result
 
 
def main():
    parser = argparse.ArgumentParser(description="Transmission line twin research reference")
    parser.add_argument("--config", default="config/lines.json")
    parser.add_argument("--db", default=os.getenv("DATABASE_URL", "sqlite:///twin.db"))
    sub = parser.add_subparsers(dest="command", required=True)
    g = sub.add_parser("generate-demo")
    g.add_argument("--out", default="data/demo.jsonl")
    g.add_argument("--rows", type=int, default=288)
    imp = sub.add_parser("import-csv")
    imp.add_argument("--input", required=True)
    imp.add_argument("--mapping", default="config/csv_mapping.json")
    imp.add_argument("--out", default="data/imported.jsonl")
    for name in ("process", "report", "consume"):
        p = sub.add_parser(name)
        p.add_argument("--run-id", required=True)
        if name == "process":
            p.add_argument("--input", required=True)
        if name == "consume":
            p.add_argument("--stream", default="demo")
            p.add_argument("--mode", choices=("replay", "live"), default="replay")
    replay_parser = sub.add_parser("replay")
    replay_parser.add_argument("--input", required=True)
    replay_parser.add_argument("--stream", default="demo")
    replay_parser.add_argument("--speed", type=float, default=60)
    replay_parser.add_argument("--checkpoint", default="data/replay.checkpoint.json")
    for name in ("network-demo", "estimate-demo", "three-phase-demo", "fault-demo", "thermal-demo"):
        sub.add_parser(name)
    ml = sub.add_parser("train-residual")
    ml.add_argument("--input", required=True)
    ml.add_argument("--out", default="models/residual.joblib")
    fc = sub.add_parser("train-forecast")
    fc.add_argument("--input", required=True)
    fc.add_argument("--out", default="models/forecast.joblib")
    args = parser.parse_args()
    if args.command == "generate-demo":
        output = {"generated": generate(args.config, args.out, args.rows)}
    elif args.command == "import-csv":
        from .importer import import_csv
        a, r = import_csv(args.input, args.mapping, args.out)
        output = {"accepted": a, "rejected": r}
    elif args.command in ("process", "report", "consume"):
        store = Store(args.db)
        configs = load_configs(args.config)
        if args.command == "process":
            output = process(args.input, store, configs, args.run_id)
        elif args.command == "report":
            output = report(store, args.run_id)
        else:
            from .mqtt_io import consume
            store.init()
            store.register_parameters(configs)
            store.ensure_run(args.run_id, args.mode, manifest(configs))
            consume(store, configs, args.run_id, args.stream, args.mode)
            return
    elif args.command == "replay":
        from .mqtt_io import replay
        replay(args.input, args.stream, args.speed, args.checkpoint)
        output = {"status": "broker_acknowledged"}
    elif args.command == "train-residual":
        from .learning import train_residual
        output = train_residual(args.input, load_configs(args.config), args.out)
    elif args.command == "train-forecast":
        from .forecast import train_forecast
        output = train_forecast(args.input, args.out)
    else:
        from . import advanced
        output = getattr(advanced, args.command.replace("-", "_"))()
    print(json.dumps(output, indent=2, allow_nan=False))
 
 
if __name__ == "__main__":
    main()

Source file 12
src/tl_twin/api.py
import os
from datetime import datetime, timezone
from fastapi import FastAPI, HTTPException, Query
from sqlalchemy import text
from .storage import Store
 
 
def create_app(database_url=None):
    app = FastAPI(title="Transmission line twin read only API", version="2.0.0")
    store = Store(database_url or os.getenv("DATABASE_URL", "sqlite:///twin.db"))
 
    @app.get("/health")
    def health():
        try:
            with store.engine.connect() as conn:
                conn.execute(text("SELECT 1 FROM twin_states LIMIT 1"))
            return {"status": "ready"}
        except Exception:
            raise HTTPException(503, "Database or schema not ready")
 
    @app.get("/v1/runs/{run_id}/lines/{asset_id}/latest")
    def latest(run_id: str, asset_id: str):
        rows = store.history(run_id, asset_id, 1)
        if not rows:
            raise HTTPException(404, "No state for this run and asset")
        result = dict(rows[0]["payload"])
        # Historical replay is evaluated against its event clock, never wall time.
        if result.get("mode") == "live":
            age = (datetime.now(timezone.utc) - datetime.fromisoformat(
                result["event_time"])).total_seconds()
            result["current_age_s"] = age
            result["current_freshness"] = ("STALE" if age > 120 else
                                            "FUTURE" if age < -5 else "FRESH")
        return result
 
    @app.get("/v1/runs/{run_id}/lines/{asset_id}/history")
    def history(run_id: str, asset_id: str, limit: int = Query(200, ge=1, le=2000)):
        return [row["payload"] for row in store.history(run_id, asset_id, limit)]
 
    return app
 
 
app = create_app()

Source file 13
src/tl_twin/mqtt_io.py
"""QoS 1 input, transactional state outbox, at least once delivery."""
import json
import os
import queue
import threading
import time
from pathlib import Path
import paho.mqtt.client as mqtt
from sqlalchemy.exc import SQLAlchemyError
from .contracts import Measurement
from .twin import evaluate
 
 
def client(client_id, durable=False, manual_ack=False,
           on_connect=None, on_message=None):
    c = mqtt.Client(mqtt.CallbackAPIVersion.VERSION2, client_id=client_id,
                    clean_session=not durable, protocol=mqtt.MQTTv311,
                    manual_ack=manual_ack)
    if os.getenv("MQTT_USER"):
        c.username_pw_set(os.environ["MQTT_USER"], os.environ["MQTT_PASSWORD"])
    if os.getenv("MQTT_CA"):
        c.tls_set(ca_certs=os.environ["MQTT_CA"])
    c.reconnect_delay_set(min_delay=1, max_delay=30)
    c.on_connect = on_connect
    c.on_message = on_message
    c.connect(os.getenv("MQTT_HOST", "localhost"),
              int(os.getenv("MQTT_PORT", "1883")), keepalive=30)
    c.loop_start()
    return c
 
 
def send(c, topic, payload):
    info = c.publish(topic, payload, qos=1, retain=False)
    info.wait_for_publish(timeout=10)
    if not info.is_published():
        raise TimeoutError("MQTT broker acknowledgement timed out")
 
 
def replay(path, stream_id, speed=60, checkpoint=None):
    if speed <= 0:
        raise ValueError("Speed must be positive")
    frames = [Measurement.model_validate_json(line) for line in
              Path(path).read_text(encoding="utf-8").splitlines() if line.strip()]
    frames.sort(key=lambda m: (m.event_time, m.asset_id, m.sequence_no))
    start = 0
    if checkpoint and Path(checkpoint).exists():
        saved = json.loads(Path(checkpoint).read_text())
        # Resume only the exact normalized dataset, never a changed input file.
        from hashlib import sha256
        if saved["file_hash"] != sha256(Path(path).read_bytes()).hexdigest():
            raise ValueError("Checkpoint belongs to another file")
        start = saved["next_index"]
    c = client("replay-" + stream_id)
    try:
        previous = frames[start].event_time if start < len(frames) else None
        for i in range(start, len(frames)):
            m = frames[i]
            delay = max(0, (m.event_time - previous).total_seconds() / speed)
            time.sleep(delay)
            send(c, f"dt/v1/input/{stream_id}/line/{m.asset_id}/measurement",
                 m.model_dump_json())
            previous = m.event_time
            if checkpoint:
                from hashlib import sha256
                temp = Path(str(checkpoint) + ".tmp")
                temp.write_text(json.dumps({"next_index": i + 1,
                    "file_hash": sha256(Path(path).read_bytes()).hexdigest()}))
                temp.replace(checkpoint)
    finally:
        c.disconnect()
        c.loop_stop()
 
 
def consume(store, configs, run_id, stream_id, mode="replay"):
    inbox = queue.Queue(maxsize=1000)
    overloaded = threading.Event()
 
    def connected(c, userdata, flags, reason_code, properties):
        if reason_code == 0:
            c.subscribe(f"dt/v1/input/{stream_id}/line/+/measurement", qos=1)
 
    def received(c, userdata, msg):
        try:
            inbox.put_nowait(msg)
        except queue.Full:
            # Restart the process; persistent session redelivers unacknowledged input.
            overloaded.set()
 
    c = client("twin-" + stream_id, durable=True, manual_ack=True,
               on_connect=connected, on_message=received)
    pending = None
    try:
        while True:
            if overloaded.is_set():
                raise RuntimeError("Input queue full; restart and reconcile stream")
            # Paho's background network loop reconnects after transport failures.
            try:
                pending = pending or inbox.get(timeout=0.2)
            except queue.Empty:
                pass
            if pending:
                raw = pending.payload.decode("utf-8", errors="replace")
                try:
                    m = Measurement.model_validate_json(raw)
                    if pending.topic != f"dt/v1/input/{stream_id}/line/{m.asset_id}/measurement":
                        raise ValueError("Topic and payload asset disagree")
                    # Commit checks identity even for an already processed frame.
                    s = evaluate(m, configs, run_id, mode)
                    s["mode"] = mode
                    store.commit_frame(m, s)
                except (ValueError, json.JSONDecodeError) as exc:
                    store.dead_letter(exc, raw)
                except SQLAlchemyError:
                    time.sleep(2)  # Keep frame pending and unacknowledged.
                    continue
                c.ack(pending.mid, pending.qos)
                pending = None
            for row in store.outbox(run_id):
                try:
                    send(c, f"dt/v1/run/{run_id}/line/{row['asset_id']}/state",
                         json.dumps(row["payload"], allow_nan=False))
                    store.mark_published(run_id, row["message_id"])
                except (TimeoutError, RuntimeError, SQLAlchemyError):
                    break
    finally:
        c.disconnect()
        c.loop_stop()

Source file 14
src/tl_twin/network.py
"""One shared solver for electrically connected component models."""
import json
from pathlib import Path
import numpy as np
import pandapower as pp
import pandapower.topology as topology
 
 
def build_network(spec):
    net = pp.create_empty_network(sn_mva=100, f_hz=spec["frequency_hz"])
    buses = {}
    for b in spec["buses"]:
        if b["id"] in buses:
            raise ValueError("Duplicate shared bus ID")
        buses[b["id"]] = pp.create_bus(net, b["nominal_kv"], name=b["id"])
    for source in spec["sources"]:
        pp.create_ext_grid(net, buses[source["bus"]], vm_pu=source["vm_pu"],
                           va_degree=source.get("va_degree", 0),
                           s_sc_max_mva=source.get("s_sc_max_mva", 3000),
                           rx_max=source.get("rx_max", 0.1))
    for line in spec["lines"]:
        a, b = buses[line["from_bus"]], buses[line["to_bus"]]
        if net.bus.at[a, "vn_kv"] != net.bus.at[b, "vn_kv"]:
            raise ValueError("Voltage-level transition requires a transformer")
        pp.create_line_from_parameters(net, a, b, line["length_km"],
            line["r_ohm_per_km"], line["x_ohm_per_km"], line["c_nf_per_km"],
            line["max_i_ka"], name=line["id"],
            in_service=line.get("in_service", True),
            parallel=line.get("parallel_circuits", 1))
    for trafo in spec.get("transformers", []):
        args = {k: v for k, v in trafo.items() if k not in ("id", "hv_bus", "lv_bus")}
        pp.create_transformer_from_parameters(net, buses[trafo["hv_bus"]],
            buses[trafo["lv_bus"]], name=trafo["id"], **args)
    for load in spec.get("loads", []):
        pp.create_load(net, buses[load["bus"]], p_mw=load["p_mw"],
                       q_mvar=load["q_mvar"], name=load["id"])
    for gen in spec.get("generators", []):
        pp.create_sgen(net, buses[gen["bus"]], p_mw=gen["p_mw"],
                       q_mvar=gen["q_mvar"], name=gen["id"])
    if len(topology.unsupplied_buses(net)):
        raise ValueError("Unsupplied island; no valid shared-network snapshot")
    return net, buses
 
 
def solve_network(spec):
    net, buses = build_network(spec)
    pp.runpp(net, numba=False, calculate_voltage_angles=True, tolerance_mva=1e-9,
             lightsim2grid=False)
    if not np.isfinite(net.res_bus.vm_pu).all():
        raise ValueError("Nonfinite shared bus voltages")
    losses = net.res_line.pl_mw.sum() + net.res_trafo.pl_mw.sum()
    supply = net.res_ext_grid.p_mw.sum() + net.res_sgen.p_mw.sum()
    demand = net.res_load.p_mw.sum()
    return {"snapshot_id": spec["snapshot_id"], "event_time": spec["event_time"],
        "topology_version": spec["topology_version"],
        "buses": {name: {"voltage_kv": float(net.res_bus.at[i, "vm_pu"] *
            net.bus.at[i, "vn_kv"]), "angle_deg": float(net.res_bus.at[i, "va_degree"])}
            for name, i in buses.items()},
        "lines": {net.line.at[i, "name"]: {
            "p_send_mw": float(r.p_from_mw), "p_recv_mw": float(-r.p_to_mw),
            "loss_mw": float(r.pl_mw), "loading_percent": float(r.loading_percent)}
            for i, r in net.res_line.iterrows()},
        "total_loss_mw": float(losses),
        "active_power_balance_error_mw": float(supply - demand - losses)}
 
 
def load_network(path="config/network.json"):
    return json.loads(Path(path).read_text(encoding="utf-8"))

Source file 15
src/tl_twin/advanced.py
"""Executable teaching experiments. Every parameter here is synthetic."""
import numpy as np
import pandapower as pp
from pandapower.estimation import estimate
from pandapower.shortcircuit import calc_sc
from scipy.optimize import brentq
from scipy.integrate import solve_ivp
from .network import build_network, load_network, solve_network
from .contracts import load_configs
from .physics import build_pair, resistance
 
 
def network_demo():
    return solve_network(load_network())
 
 
def estimate_demo():
    spec = load_network()
    # Use three buses to keep the placement and state vector easy to inspect.
    spec["buses"] = spec["buses"][:3]
    spec["transformers"] = []
    spec["loads"] = spec["loads"][:2]
    net, buses = build_network(spec)
    pp.runpp(net, numba=False, calculate_voltage_angles=True, lightsim2grid=False)
    truth = net.res_bus.vm_pu.copy()
    for i in net.bus.index:
        pp.create_measurement(net, "v", "bus", truth.at[i], 0.002, i)
    for i in net.line.index:
        for kind, column, sigma in (("p", "p_from_mw", 0.1),
                                    ("q", "q_from_mvar", 0.1)):
            pp.create_measurement(net, kind, "line", net.res_line.at[i, column],
                                   sigma, i, side="from")
    result = estimate(net, init="flat", tolerance=1e-8, maximum_iterations=30)
    success = bool(result.get("success", False)) if isinstance(result, dict) else bool(result)
    if not success:
        raise ValueError("State estimator did not converge")
    return {"data_origin": "synthetic", "success": success,
        "measurements": len(net.measurement), "unknown_states": 2 * len(net.bus) - 1,
        "max_voltage_error_pu": float(np.abs(net.res_bus_est.vm_pu - truth).max()),
        "estimated_bus_voltage_pu": net.res_bus_est.vm_pu.to_dict()}
 
 
def three_phase_demo():
    net = pp.create_empty_network(f_hz=50, sn_mva=10)
    a = pp.create_bus(net, 20, name="MV_A")
    b = pp.create_bus(net, 20, name="MV_B")
    pp.create_ext_grid(net, a, vm_pu=1.02, s_sc_max_mva=1000,
        s_sc_min_mva=800, rx_max=0.1, rx_min=0.1, r0x0_max=0.1, x0x_max=1.0)
    pp.create_line_from_parameters(net, a, b, length_km=2,
        r_ohm_per_km=0.2, x_ohm_per_km=0.3, c_nf_per_km=10, max_i_ka=0.4,
        r0_ohm_per_km=0.6, x0_ohm_per_km=0.9, c0_nf_per_km=5)
    pp.create_asymmetric_load(net, b, p_a_mw=0.3, p_b_mw=0.2, p_c_mw=0.1,
                              q_a_mvar=0.08, q_b_mvar=0.05, q_c_mvar=0.02, type="wye")
    pp.runpp_3ph(net, numba=False, max_iteration=40, tolerance_mva=1e-9)
    row = net.res_bus_3ph.loc[b]
    phase = np.array([row[f"vm_{s}_pu"] * np.exp(
        1j * np.deg2rad(row[f"va_{s}_degree"])) for s in "abc"])
    alpha = np.exp(2j * np.pi / 3)
    zero = (phase[0] + phase[1] + phase[2]) / 3
    positive = (phase[0] + alpha * phase[1] + alpha**2 * phase[2]) / 3
    negative = (phase[0] + alpha**2 * phase[1] + alpha * phase[2]) / 3
    return {"data_origin": "synthetic", "phase_voltage_pu": np.abs(phase).tolist(),
        "zero_sequence_pu": float(abs(zero)),
        "positive_sequence_pu": float(abs(positive)),
        "negative_sequence_pu": float(abs(negative)),
        "voltage_unbalance_percent": float(100 * abs(negative) / abs(positive))}
 
 
def fault_demo():
    net, buses = build_network(load_network())
    calc_sc(net, fault="3ph", case="max", bus=buses["BUS_C"],
            ip=True, ith=True, tk_s=1.0)
    r = net.res_bus_sc.loc[buses["BUS_C"]]
    return {"data_origin": "synthetic", "fault_type": "IEC 60909 three phase",
        "ikss_ka": float(r.ikss_ka), "ip_ka": float(r.ip_ka),
        "ith_ka": float(r.ith_ka), "waveforms_computed": False}
 
 
def heat_terms(t, current_a, ambient_c=35, wind_m_s=0.6, solar_w_m2=800,
               diameter_m=0.028, emissivity=0.5, absorptivity=0.5,
               r20_ohm_m=0.00008, alpha_per_c=0.00403):
    """Explicit educational heat balance; h must be calibrated for field use."""
    # A documented empirical teaching coefficient, NOT an IEEE 738 rating algorithm.
    h_w_m2_k = 5 + 10 * np.sqrt(max(0, wind_m_s))
    joule = current_a**2 * r20_ohm_m * (1 + alpha_per_c * (t - 20))
    solar = absorptivity * diameter_m * solar_w_m2
    convection = h_w_m2_k * np.pi * diameter_m * (t - ambient_c)
    radiation = emissivity * 5.670374419e-8 * np.pi * diameter_m * (
        (t + 273.15)**4 - (ambient_c + 273.15)**4)
    return joule + solar - convection - radiation
 
 
def thermal_demo():
    cfg = load_configs("config/lines.json")[0]
    net, _, _, i = build_pair(cfg, 132.1, 80, 16)
    values = {"tdpf": True, "alpha": cfg.alpha_per_c,
        "reference_temperature_degree_celsius": 20.0,
        "temperature_degree_celsius": 35.0, "air_temperature_degree_celsius": 35.0,
        "conductor_outer_diameter_m": 0.028, "mc_joule_per_m_k": 1000.0,
        "wind_speed_m_per_s": 0.6, "wind_angle_degree": 45.0,
        "solar_radiation_w_per_sq_m": 800.0, "solar_absorptivity": 0.5,
        "emissivity": 0.5}
    net.line["tdpf"] = False
    for k, v in values.items():
        net.line.at[i, k] = v
    pp.runpp(net, tdpf=True, tdpf_update_r_theta=True, tdpf_delay_s=600,
        numba=False, max_iteration=60, tolerance_mva=1e-8, lightsim2grid=False)
    r = net.res_line.loc[i]
    current = float(max(r.i_from_ka, r.i_to_ka) * 1000)
    steady_t = brentq(lambda t: heat_terms(t, current), 35, 300)
    solution = solve_ivp(lambda seconds, state: [heat_terms(state[0], current) / 1000],
                          (0, 600), [35], rtol=1e-8, atol=1e-8)
    # Rating in this teaching heat model only; operational ratings need certified data.
    limit = 80.0
    cooling_without_current = -heat_terms(limit, 0)
    teaching_limit = np.sqrt(max(0, cooling_without_current) / (
        cfg.r_ohm_per_km / 1000 * (1 + cfg.alpha_per_c * (limit - 20))))
    return {"data_origin": "synthetic", "current_a": current,
        "pandapower_600s_temperature_c": float(r.temperature_degree_celsius),
        "teaching_heat_model_600s_temperature_c": float(solution.y[0, -1]),
        "teaching_heat_model_steady_temperature_c": float(steady_t),
        "teaching_heat_model_80c_limit_a": float(teaching_limit),
        "operational_rating_validated": False}

Source file 16
src/tl_twin/calibration.py
"""Constrained example fit of R and X to independent receiving voltage."""
import json
from pathlib import Path
import numpy as np
from scipy.optimize import least_squares
from .contracts import Measurement, INPUTS
from .physics import solve_abcd
 
 
def fit_rx(path, cfg, output_path):
    if cfg.use_measured_temperature:
        raise ValueError("Temperature-dependent calibration needs a temperature-aware fit")
    frames=sorted([Measurement.model_validate_json(s) for s in
        Path(path).read_text().splitlines() if s.strip()], key=lambda m:m.event_time)
    frames=[m for m in frames if m.asset_id==cfg.asset_id and
        cfg.valid_from<=m.event_time and (cfg.valid_to is None or m.event_time<cfg.valid_to) and
        m.connection_state=="CONNECTED" and all(m.usable(k) for k in (*INPUTS,"vr_ll_kv"))]
    if len(frames)<60:
        raise ValueError("Need at least 60 frames and varying operating points")
    cut=int(0.7*len(frames))
    def errors(values, subset):
        candidate=cfg.model_copy(update={"r_ohm_per_km":values[0],"x_ohm_per_km":values[1]})
        return np.asarray([(m.vr_ll_kv-solve_abcd(candidate,m.vs_ll_kv,
            m.p_recv_mw,m.q_recv_mvar)["vr_ll_kv"])/m.uncertainty.get("vr_ll_kv",0.1)
            for m in subset])
    lower=[max(1e-6,cfg.r_ohm_per_km*0.5),cfg.x_ohm_per_km*0.5]
    upper=[cfg.r_ohm_per_km*1.5,cfg.x_ohm_per_km*1.5]
    fit=least_squares(lambda values:errors(values,frames[:cut]),
        [cfg.r_ohm_per_km,cfg.x_ohm_per_km],bounds=(lower,upper),loss="soft_l1",
        max_nfev=100)
    singular=np.linalg.svd(fit.jac,compute_uv=False)
    report={"candidate_r_ohm_per_km":float(fit.x[0]),
        "candidate_x_ohm_per_km":float(fit.x[1]),"fit_success":bool(fit.success),
        "weighted_test_rmse":float(np.sqrt(np.mean(errors(fit.x,frames[cut:])**2))),
        "jacobian_condition_number":float(singular[0]/max(singular[-1],1e-15)),
        "at_bound":bool(np.any(np.isclose(fit.x,lower)) or np.any(np.isclose(fit.x,upper))),
        "automatic_parameter_update":False,
        "note":"Voltage-only fit can confuse meter bias with impedance error"}
    Path(output_path).parent.mkdir(parents=True,exist_ok=True)
    Path(output_path).write_text(json.dumps(report,indent=2))
    return report

Source file 17
src/tl_twin/mechanical.py
"""Level-span static sag geometry; tension at each temperature is an INPUT."""
import math
 
 
def sag_catenary(span_m, weight_n_per_m, horizontal_tension_n):
    if min(span_m,weight_n_per_m,horizontal_tension_n)<=0:
        raise ValueError("Span, weight and horizontal tension must be positive")
    a=horizontal_tension_n/weight_n_per_m
    exact=a*(math.cosh(span_m/(2*a))-1)
    approximate=weight_n_per_m*span_m**2/(8*horizontal_tension_n)
    return {"sag_catenary_m":exact,"sag_parabolic_m":approximate,
        "parabolic_relative_error":abs(approximate-exact)/exact,
        "tension_source_required":True,"clearance_validated":False}

Source file 18
src/tl_twin/learning.py
"""Optional bounded residual correction; raw physics alarms stay authoritative."""
import hashlib
import json
import platform
from pathlib import Path
import numpy as np
import joblib
from sklearn.linear_model import Ridge
from sklearn.pipeline import make_pipeline
from sklearn.preprocessing import StandardScaler
from .contracts import Measurement, parameter_for
from .physics import MODEL_VERSION, solve_line
 
FEATURES = ["vs_ll_kv", "p_recv_mw", "q_recv_mvar"]
 
 
def train_residual(path, configs, output_path):
    frames = [Measurement.model_validate_json(x) for x in
              Path(path).read_text().splitlines() if x.strip()]
    frames.sort(key=lambda m: m.event_time)
    eligible = [m for m in frames if m.connection_state == "CONNECTED"
                and all(m.usable(k) for k in FEATURES + ["vr_ll_kv"])]
    assets = {m.asset_id for m in eligible}
    if len(assets) != 1 or len(eligible) < 120:
        raise ValueError("Train one asset with at least 120 valid chronological frames")
    params = {parameter_for(configs, m.asset_id, m.event_time).parameter_version
              for m in eligible}
    if len(params) != 1:
        raise ValueError("Train one parameter regime; split versions explicitly")
    xs, residuals, times = [], [], []
    for m in eligible:
        cfg = parameter_for(configs, m.asset_id, m.event_time)
        if cfg.use_measured_temperature:
            raise ValueError("Extend features and validate temperature role before training")
        yphysics = solve_line(cfg, m.vs_ll_kv, m.p_recv_mw, m.q_recv_mvar)["vr_ll_kv"]
        xs.append([getattr(m, k) for k in FEATURES])
        residuals.append(m.vr_ll_kv - yphysics)
        times.append(m.event_time.isoformat())
    x, y = np.asarray(xs), np.asarray(residuals)
    a, b = int(len(x) * 0.6), int(len(x) * 0.8)
    model = make_pipeline(StandardScaler(), Ridge(alpha=1.0))
    model.fit(x[:a], y[:a])
    calibration_error = np.abs(y[a:b] - model.predict(x[a:b]))
    quantile = float(np.quantile(calibration_error, 0.95, method="higher"))
    # This is empirical holdout coverage; time dependence can invalidate exchangeability.
    test_error = y[b:] - model.predict(x[b:])
    in_domain = np.all((x[b:] >= x[:a].min(axis=0)) &
                       (x[b:] <= x[:a].max(axis=0)), axis=1)
    guarded_error = np.where(in_domain, test_error, y[b:])
    metadata = {"features": FEATURES, "target": "measured Vr minus raw physics Vr",
        "asset_id": next(iter(assets)), "parameter_version": next(iter(params)),
        "physics_version": MODEL_VERSION,
        "data_origin": sorted({m.data_origin for m in eligible}),
        "dataset_ids": sorted({m.dataset_id for m in eligible}),
        "input_sha256": hashlib.sha256(Path(path).read_bytes()).hexdigest(),
        "python_version": platform.python_version(),
        "train_end": times[a-1], "calibration_end": times[b-1], "test_end": times[-1],
        "counts": {"train": a, "calibration": b-a, "test": len(x)-b},
        "bounds_low": x[:a].min(axis=0).tolist(),
        "bounds_high": x[:a].max(axis=0).tolist(),
        "empirical_95_percent_error_half_width_kv": quantile,
        "physics_test_mae_kv": float(np.mean(np.abs(y[b:]))),
        "unguarded_hybrid_test_mae_kv": float(np.mean(np.abs(test_error))),
        "guarded_hybrid_test_mae_kv": float(np.mean(np.abs(guarded_error))),
        "test_ml_coverage_fraction": float(np.mean(in_domain)),
        "test_interval_coverage": float(np.mean(np.abs(test_error) <= quantile)),
        "automatic_promotion": False}
    Path(output_path).parent.mkdir(parents=True, exist_ok=True)
    joblib.dump({"model": model, "metadata": metadata}, output_path)
    Path(str(output_path) + ".json").write_text(json.dumps(metadata, indent=2))
    return metadata
 
 
def corrected_voltage(artifact, cfg, measurement, raw_voltage_kv):
    meta = artifact["metadata"]
    if (cfg.asset_id != meta["asset_id"] or cfg.parameter_version != meta["parameter_version"]
            or meta["physics_version"] != MODEL_VERSION
            or measurement.connection_state != "CONNECTED"
            or not all(measurement.usable(k) for k in FEATURES)):
        return {"voltage_kv": raw_voltage_kv, "used_ml": False, "reason": "INCOMPATIBLE"}
    x = np.array([getattr(measurement, k) for k in FEATURES])
    if np.any(x < meta["bounds_low"]) or np.any(x > meta["bounds_high"]):
        return {"voltage_kv": raw_voltage_kv, "used_ml": False, "reason": "OUT_OF_DOMAIN"}
    correction = float(artifact["model"].predict(x.reshape(1, -1))[0])
    return {"voltage_kv": raw_voltage_kv + correction, "used_ml": True,
        "correction_kv": correction,
        "empirical_half_width_kv": meta["empirical_95_percent_error_half_width_kv"]}

Source file 19
src/tl_twin/forecast.py
"""A 15 minute forecast on exact 5 minute samples with purged time splits."""
import json
import hashlib
from pathlib import Path
import numpy as np
import joblib
from sklearn.linear_model import Ridge
from sklearn.pipeline import make_pipeline
from sklearn.preprocessing import StandardScaler
from .contracts import Measurement
 
 
def train_forecast(path, output_path):
    frames = sorted([Measurement.model_validate_json(x) for x in
        Path(path).read_text().splitlines() if x.strip()], key=lambda m: m.event_time)
    if len({m.asset_id for m in frames}) != 1 or len(frames) < 240:
        raise ValueError("Need one asset and at least 240 exact 5 minute records")
    horizon, history = 3, 6
    x, y, persistence, indexes = [], [], [], []
    for i in range(history - 1, len(frames) - horizon):
        window = frames[i-history+1:i+horizon+1]
        if any((b.event_time - a.event_time).total_seconds() != 300
               for a, b in zip(window, window[1:])):
            continue
        if not all(m.usable("p_recv_mw") and m.connection_state == "CONNECTED"
                   for m in window):
            continue
        minute = frames[i].event_time.hour * 60 + frames[i].event_time.minute
        values = [m.p_recv_mw for m in window[:history]]
        values += [np.sin(2*np.pi*minute/1440), np.cos(2*np.pi*minute/1440)]
        x.append(values); y.append(frames[i+horizon].p_recv_mw)
        persistence.append(frames[i].p_recv_mw); indexes.append(i)
    x, y, persistence, indexes = map(np.asarray, (x, y, persistence, indexes))
    cut1, cut2 = int(len(frames)*0.6), int(len(frames)*0.8)
    train = indexes + horizon < cut1
    calibrate = (indexes >= cut1) & (indexes + horizon < cut2)
    test = indexes >= cut2
    if min(train.sum(), calibrate.sum(), test.sum()) < 20:
        raise ValueError("Insufficient valid records in one split")
    model = make_pipeline(StandardScaler(), Ridge(alpha=1.0))
    model.fit(x[train], y[train])
    half_width = float(np.quantile(np.abs(y[calibrate] - model.predict(x[calibrate])),
                                   0.95, method="higher"))
    errors = y[test] - model.predict(x[test])
    metrics = {"horizon_minutes": 15, "history_minutes": 25, "history_samples": 6,
        "model_version": "pr.forecast.ridge.v1", "asset_id": frames[0].asset_id,
        "dataset_ids": sorted({m.dataset_id for m in frames}),
        "input_sha256": hashlib.sha256(Path(path).read_bytes()).hexdigest(),
        "train_label_end": frames[cut1-1].event_time.isoformat(),
        "calibration_label_end": frames[cut2-1].event_time.isoformat(),
        "test_end": frames[-1].event_time.isoformat(),
        "bounds_low": x[train].min(axis=0).tolist(),
        "bounds_high": x[train].max(axis=0).tolist(),
        "feature_order": [f"p_recv_lag_{i}_mw" for i in range(5, -1, -1)] +
                         ["sin_time_utc", "cos_time_utc"],
        "data_origin": sorted({m.data_origin for m in frames}),
        "train_count": int(train.sum()), "calibration_count": int(calibrate.sum()),
        "test_count": int(test.sum()),
        "forecast_mae_mw": float(np.mean(np.abs(errors))),
        "persistence_mae_mw": float(np.mean(np.abs(y[test] - persistence[test]))),
        "empirical_half_width_mw": half_width,
        "test_interval_coverage": float(np.mean(np.abs(errors) <= half_width)),
        "automatic_promotion": False}
    Path(output_path).parent.mkdir(parents=True, exist_ok=True)
    joblib.dump({"model": model, "metadata": metrics}, output_path)
    Path(str(output_path)+".json").write_text(json.dumps(metrics, indent=2))
    return metrics

Source file 20
config/lines.json
[
  {
    "asset_id": "TL_001",
    "parameter_version": "synthetic.line.v1",
    "topology_version": "isolated.pilot.v1",
    "valid_from": "2020-01-01T00:00:00Z",
    "from_bus": "BUS_A", "to_bus": "BUS_B",
    "nominal_kv": 132.0, "nominal_frequency_hz": 50.0,
    "length_km": 65.0, "r_ohm_per_km": 0.08,
    "x_ohm_per_km": 0.35, "c_nf_per_km": 9.0,
    "max_i_ka": 0.60, "parallel_circuits": 1,
    "bundle_count_per_phase": 1, "derating_factor": 1.0,
    "line_type": "ol", "in_service": true,
    "reference_temperature_c": 20.0, "alpha_per_c": 0.00403,
    "use_measured_temperature": false,
    "parameter_source": "Synthetic teaching case, not CEB asset data",
    "voltage_warn_kv": 0.4, "voltage_alarm_kv": 0.8
  },
  {
    "asset_id": "TL_002",
    "parameter_version": "synthetic.second.v1",
    "topology_version": "isolated.pilot.v1",
    "valid_from": "2020-01-01T00:00:00Z",
    "from_bus": "BUS_C", "to_bus": "BUS_D",
    "nominal_kv": 132.0, "nominal_frequency_hz": 50.0,
    "length_km": 40.0, "r_ohm_per_km": 0.10,
    "x_ohm_per_km": 0.32, "c_nf_per_km": 10.0,
    "max_i_ka": 0.55,
    "parameter_source": "Synthetic teaching case, not CEB asset data"
  }
]

Source file 21
config/csv_mapping.json
{
  "timestamp_column": "timestamp", "timezone": "Asia/Colombo",
  "asset_id": "TL_001", "source_id": "approved.historical.export.v1",
  "data_origin": "utility", "connection_state": "UNKNOWN",
  "state_column": "connection_state",
  "signals": {
    "vs_ll_kv": {"column": "Vs_kV", "scale": 1},
    "vr_ll_kv": {"column": "Vr_kV", "scale": 1},
    "p_recv_mw": {"column": "Pr_MW", "scale": 1},
    "q_recv_mvar": {"column": "Qr_MVAr", "scale": 1},
    "p_send_mw": {"column": "Ps_MW", "scale": 1},
    "q_send_mvar": {"column": "Qs_MVAr", "scale": 1},
    "is_a": {"column": "Is_A", "scale": 1},
    "ir_a": {"column": "Ir_A", "scale": 1}
  }
}

Source file 22
config/network.json
{
  "snapshot_id": "synthetic.network.snapshot.001",
  "event_time": "2026-01-01T00:00:00+00:00",
  "topology_version": "synthetic.connected.v1", "frequency_hz": 50,
  "buses": [{"id":"BUS_A","nominal_kv":132},
    {"id":"BUS_B","nominal_kv":132}, {"id":"BUS_C","nominal_kv":132},
    {"id":"BUS_D","nominal_kv":33}],
  "sources": [{"bus":"BUS_A","vm_pu":1.01,"s_sc_max_mva":3000,"rx_max":0.1}],
  "lines": [
    {"id":"TL_001","from_bus":"BUS_A","to_bus":"BUS_B","length_km":65,
     "r_ohm_per_km":0.08,"x_ohm_per_km":0.35,"c_nf_per_km":9,"max_i_ka":0.6},
    {"id":"TL_002","from_bus":"BUS_B","to_bus":"BUS_C","length_km":40,
     "r_ohm_per_km":0.1,"x_ohm_per_km":0.32,"c_nf_per_km":10,"max_i_ka":0.55}],
  "transformers": [{"id":"TR_001","hv_bus":"BUS_B","lv_bus":"BUS_D",
    "sn_mva":40,"vn_hv_kv":132,"vn_lv_kv":33,"vk_percent":12,
    "vkr_percent":0.4,"pfe_kw":30,"i0_percent":0.1,"shift_degree":0}],
  "loads": [{"id":"LOAD_B","bus":"BUS_B","p_mw":20,"q_mvar":4},
    {"id":"LOAD_C","bus":"BUS_C","p_mw":40,"q_mvar":8},
    {"id":"LOAD_D","bus":"BUS_D","p_mw":8,"q_mvar":2}],
  "generators": []
}

Source file 23
Dockerfile
FROM python:3.12-slim
WORKDIR /app
COPY requirements.lock pyproject.toml ./
COPY src ./src
RUN python -m pip install --no-cache-dir -r requirements.lock \
    && python -m pip install --no-cache-dir --no-deps .
COPY config ./config
COPY tools ./tools
USER 10001:10001
CMD ["tl-twin", "--help"]

Source file 24
.dockerignore
.venv
__pycache__
.pytest_cache
.git
.env
data
models
*.db
*.egg-info

Source file 25
.gitignore
.venv/
__pycache__/
.pytest_cache/
*.egg-info/
.env
data/
models/
*.db
backups/
compose.resolved.yml
image-digests.txt

Source file 26
compose.yaml
services:
  db:
    image: postgres:18.6
    environment:
      POSTGRES_USER: twin_admin
      POSTGRES_DB: twin
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: ${DB_ADMIN_PASSWORD:?Run tools/configure.py}
      APP_PASSWORD: ${DB_APP_PASSWORD:?Run tools/configure.py}
      READER_PASSWORD: ${DB_READER_PASSWORD:?Run tools/configure.py}
    volumes:
      - pgdata:/var/lib/postgresql
      - ./deploy/postgres/init-roles.sh:/docker-entrypoint-initdb.d/init-roles.sh:ro
    healthcheck:
      test: [CMD-SHELL, "pg_isready -U twin_admin -d twin"]
      interval: 5s
      timeout: 3s
      retries: 20
    restart: unless-stopped
  broker-init:
    image: eclipse-mosquitto:2.1.2-alpine
    user: "0:0"
    environment: &broker-passwords
      MQTT_PUBLISH_PASSWORD: ${MQTT_PUBLISH_PASSWORD:?Run tools/configure.py}
      MQTT_WORKER_PASSWORD: ${MQTT_WORKER_PASSWORD:?Run tools/configure.py}
      MQTT_VIEW_PASSWORD: ${MQTT_VIEW_PASSWORD:?Run tools/configure.py}
    volumes: ["mqttauth:/auth"]
    entrypoint: ["/bin/sh", "-ec"]
    command:
      - |
        mosquitto_passwd -b -c /auth/passwd dt_publisher "$$MQTT_PUBLISH_PASSWORD"
        mosquitto_passwd -b /auth/passwd dt_worker "$$MQTT_WORKER_PASSWORD"
        mosquitto_passwd -b /auth/passwd dt_viewer "$$MQTT_VIEW_PASSWORD"
        chown 1883:1883 /auth/passwd
        chmod 640 /auth/passwd
  broker:
    image: eclipse-mosquitto:2.1.2-alpine
    depends_on:
      broker-init: {condition: service_completed_successfully}
    environment: *broker-passwords
    volumes:
      - mqttauth:/mosquitto/auth:ro
      - mqttdata:/mosquitto/data
      - ./deploy/mosquitto/mosquitto.conf:/mosquitto/config/mosquitto.conf:ro
      - ./deploy/mosquitto/acl:/mosquitto/config/acl:ro
    ports: ["127.0.0.1:1883:1883"]
    healthcheck:
      test: [CMD-SHELL, 'mosquitto_pub -h localhost -u dt_publisher -P "$$MQTT_PUBLISH_PASSWORD" -q 1 -t dt/v1/health/ping -m ready']
      interval: 5s
      timeout: 3s
      retries: 20
    restart: unless-stopped
  db-init:
    build: .
    depends_on:
      db: {condition: service_healthy}
    environment:
      DATABASE_URL: postgresql+psycopg://dt_app:${DB_APP_PASSWORD}@db:5432/twin
    command: ["python", "tools/init_db.py"]
  worker:
    build: .
    depends_on:
      db-init: {condition: service_completed_successfully}
      broker: {condition: service_healthy}
    environment:
      DATABASE_URL: postgresql+psycopg://dt_app:${DB_APP_PASSWORD}@db:5432/twin
      MQTT_HOST: broker
      MQTT_USER: dt_worker
      MQTT_PASSWORD: ${MQTT_WORKER_PASSWORD}
    command: ["tl-twin", "consume", "--run-id", "replay-v2", "--stream", "demo", "--mode", "replay"]
    restart: unless-stopped
  api:
    build: .
    depends_on:
      db-init: {condition: service_completed_successfully}
    environment:
      DATABASE_URL: postgresql+psycopg://dt_reader:${DB_READER_PASSWORD}@db:5432/twin
    command: ["uvicorn", "tl_twin.api:app", "--host", "0.0.0.0", "--port", "8000"]
    ports: ["127.0.0.1:8000:8000"]
    healthcheck:
      test: [CMD, python, -c, "import urllib.request; urllib.request.urlopen('http://localhost:8000/health')"]
      interval: 5s
      timeout: 3s
      retries: 20
    restart: unless-stopped
  grafana:
    image: grafana/grafana:13.2.3
    depends_on:
      db-init: {condition: service_completed_successfully}
    environment:
      GF_SECURITY_ADMIN_USER: admin
      GF_SECURITY_ADMIN_PASSWORD: ${GRAFANA_ADMIN_PASSWORD:?Run tools/configure.py}
      GF_USERS_ALLOW_SIGN_UP: "false"
      DB_READER_PASSWORD: ${DB_READER_PASSWORD}
    volumes:
      - grafanadata:/var/lib/grafana
      - ./deploy/grafana/provisioning:/etc/grafana/provisioning:ro
      - ./deploy/grafana/dashboards:/var/lib/grafana/dashboards:ro
    ports: ["127.0.0.1:3000:3000"]
    restart: unless-stopped
volumes:
  pgdata: {}
  mqttauth: {}
  mqttdata: {}
  grafanadata: {}

Source file 27
deploy/postgres/init-roles.sh
#!/bin/sh
set -eu
psql -v ON_ERROR_STOP=1 --username "$POSTGRES_USER" --dbname "$POSTGRES_DB" \
  -v app_password="$APP_PASSWORD" -v reader_password="$READER_PASSWORD" <<'SQL'
CREATE ROLE dt_app LOGIN PASSWORD :'app_password';
CREATE ROLE dt_reader LOGIN PASSWORD :'reader_password';
GRANT CONNECT ON DATABASE twin TO dt_app, dt_reader;
GRANT USAGE, CREATE ON SCHEMA public TO dt_app;
GRANT USAGE ON SCHEMA public TO dt_reader;
ALTER DEFAULT PRIVILEGES FOR ROLE dt_app IN SCHEMA public
    GRANT SELECT ON TABLES TO dt_reader;
SQL

Source file 28
deploy/mosquitto/mosquitto.conf
listener 1883
allow_anonymous false
password_file /mosquitto/auth/passwd
acl_file /mosquitto/config/acl
persistence true
persistence_location /mosquitto/data/
autosave_interval 10
max_queued_messages 10000
log_dest stdout

Source file 29
deploy/mosquitto/acl
user dt_publisher
topic write dt/v1/input/demo/line/+/measurement
topic write dt/v1/health/ping
user dt_worker
topic read dt/v1/input/demo/line/+/measurement
topic write dt/v1/run/+/line/+/state
user dt_viewer
topic read dt/v1/run/+/line/+/state

Source file 30
deploy/grafana/provisioning/datasources/postgres.yml
apiVersion: 1
datasources:
  - name: Twin PostgreSQL
    uid: twin-postgres
    type: postgres
    access: proxy
    url: db:5432
    user: dt_reader
    jsonData:
      database: twin
      sslmode: disable
      postgresVersion: 1800
    secureJsonData:
      password: $DB_READER_PASSWORD

Source file 31
deploy/grafana/provisioning/dashboards/provider.yml
apiVersion: 1
providers:
  - name: Twin handbook
    type: file
    options:
      path: /var/lib/grafana/dashboards

Source file 32
tools/configure.py
"""Generate local demo secrets without overwriting an existing environment."""
from pathlib import Path
import secrets
 
path = Path(".env")
if path.exists():
    raise SystemExit(".env already exists; keep it for persisted database volumes")
names = ("DB_ADMIN_PASSWORD", "DB_APP_PASSWORD", "DB_READER_PASSWORD",
         "MQTT_PUBLISH_PASSWORD", "MQTT_WORKER_PASSWORD", "MQTT_VIEW_PASSWORD",
         "GRAFANA_ADMIN_PASSWORD")
path.write_text("".join(f"{key}={secrets.token_hex(24)}\n" for key in names))
try:
    path.chmod(0o600)
except OSError:
    pass
print("Local environment generated. Keep .env private and backed up securely.")

Source file 33
tools/init_db.py
import os
import time
from sqlalchemy.exc import SQLAlchemyError
from tl_twin.storage import Store
 
store = Store(os.environ["DATABASE_URL"])
for attempt in range(20):
    try:
        store.init()
        print("Schema initialized")
        break
    except SQLAlchemyError:
        if attempt == 19:
            raise
        time.sleep(2)

Source file 34
tools/replay_docker.py
"""Host publisher for the loopback-only Compose demo."""
import argparse
import os
from pathlib import Path
from tl_twin.mqtt_io import replay
 
settings = dict(line.split("=", 1) for line in Path(".env").read_text().splitlines()
                if line and not line.startswith("#"))
os.environ["MQTT_USER"] = "dt_publisher"
os.environ["MQTT_PASSWORD"] = settings["MQTT_PUBLISH_PASSWORD"]
parser = argparse.ArgumentParser()
parser.add_argument("--input", default="data/demo.jsonl")
parser.add_argument("--speed", type=float, default=600)
parser.add_argument("--checkpoint", default="data/docker-replay.checkpoint.json")
args = parser.parse_args()
replay(args.input, "demo", args.speed, args.checkpoint)
print("Replay acknowledged by broker; confirm committed states through API")

Source file 35
tools/make_dashboard.py
import json
from pathlib import Path
 
variables = [
    ("run", "SELECT DISTINCT run_id FROM twin_states ORDER BY run_id"),
    ("asset", "SELECT DISTINCT asset_id FROM twin_states ORDER BY asset_id")]
panels = []
series = [
    ("Measured and predicted receiving voltage", "vr_measured_kv AS measured, vr_predicted_kv AS predicted", "kvolt"),
    ("Raw physics voltage residual", "vr_residual_kv AS residual", "kvolt"),
    ("Active loss", "loss_predicted_mw AS loss", "mwatt"),
    ("Line loading", "loading_percent AS loading", "percent")]
for i, (title, columns, unit) in enumerate(series):
    panels.append({"id":i+1,"type":"timeseries","title":title,
        "datasource":{"type":"postgres","uid":"twin-postgres"},
        "gridPos":{"x":(i%2)*12,"y":(i//2)*8,"w":12,"h":8},
        "fieldConfig":{"defaults":{"unit":unit},"overrides":[]},
        "targets":[{"refId":"A","format":"time_series","rawQuery":True,
            "rawSql": "SELECT event_time::timestamptz AS time, " + columns +
                " FROM twin_states WHERE run_id=${run:sqlstring} AND " +
                "asset_id=${asset:sqlstring} AND $__timeFilter(event_time::timestamptz) " +
                "ORDER BY event_time::timestamptz"}]})
panels.append({"id":5,"type":"table","title":"Latest status and origin",
    "datasource":{"type":"postgres","uid":"twin-postgres"},
    "gridPos":{"x":0,"y":16,"w":24,"h":6},
    "targets":[{"refId":"A","format":"table","rawQuery":True,"rawSql":
        "SELECT event_time, data_origin, model_status, assessment, parameter_version, " +
        "topology_version FROM twin_states WHERE run_id=${run:sqlstring} AND " +
        "asset_id=${asset:sqlstring} ORDER BY event_time DESC LIMIT 1"}]})
dashboard={"uid":"transmission-twin-v2","title":"Transmission line twin v2",
    "schemaVersion":39,"version":1,"refresh":"5s","panels":panels,
    "time":{"from":"2026-01-01T00:00:00Z","to":"2026-01-02T00:00:00Z"},
    "templating":{"list":[{"name":name,"type":"query","query":sql,
        "datasource":{"type":"postgres","uid":"twin-postgres"},
        "refresh":1,"multi":False,"includeAll":False} for name,sql in variables]}}
path=Path("deploy/grafana/dashboards/transmission-line.json")
path.parent.mkdir(parents=True,exist_ok=True)
path.write_text(json.dumps(dashboard,indent=2))
print(path)

Source file 36
tools/first_line.py
from tl_twin.contracts import load_configs
from tl_twin.physics import solve_line, solve_abcd
 
cfg = load_configs("config/lines.json")[0]
print(solve_line(cfg, 132.1, 66.8, 13.5))
print(solve_abcd(cfg, 132.1, 66.8, 13.5))

Source file 37
tools/make_schemas.py
import json
from pathlib import Path
from tl_twin.contracts import Measurement, LineConfig
 
for name, model in (("measurement.v1",Measurement),("line-config.v1",LineConfig)):
    path=Path("schemas")/(name+".json")
    path.parent.mkdir(parents=True,exist_ok=True)
    path.write_text(json.dumps(model.model_json_schema(),indent=2))
    print(path)

Source file 38
tests/test_reference.py
import json
from datetime import timedelta
from pathlib import Path
import numpy as np
import pytest
from fastapi.testclient import TestClient
from sqlalchemy import select, func
from tl_twin.contracts import Measurement, load_configs, parameter_for
from tl_twin.physics import solve_line, solve_abcd, resistance
from tl_twin.storage import Store, states, dead_letters
from tl_twin.twin import evaluate
from tl_twin.cli import generate, process, report
from tl_twin.api import create_app
from tl_twin.importer import import_csv
from tl_twin import advanced
from tl_twin.network import load_network, solve_network
 
ROOT = Path(__file__).resolve().parents[1]
 
 
@pytest.fixture
def configs():
    return load_configs(ROOT / "config/lines.json")
 
 
@pytest.fixture
def frame(tmp_path, configs):
    path = tmp_path / "input.jsonl"
    generate(ROOT / "config/lines.json", path, 1)
    return Measurement.model_validate_json(path.read_text().strip())
 
 
@pytest.mark.parametrize("p,q,vs", [(66.8,13.5,132.1),(0,0,132),(40,8,133),(-30,-5,132)])
def test_independent_physics(configs, p, q, vs):
    a, b = solve_line(configs[0], vs, p, q), solve_abcd(configs[0], vs, p, q)
    for key in ("vr_ll_kv", "is_a", "ir_a", "p_send_mw", "q_send_mvar", "loss_mw"):
        assert a[key] == pytest.approx(b[key], rel=1e-7, abs=1e-7)
    assert b["abcd_determinant_error"] < 1e-12
    assert a["loss_mw"] >= 0
 
 
def test_reference_case(configs):
    r = solve_line(configs[0], 132.1, 66.8, 13.5)
    assert r["vr_ll_kv"] == pytest.approx(126.69751408584)
    assert r["loss_mw"] == pytest.approx(1.49234828494)
    assert r["p_send_mw"] - r["p_recv_mw"] == pytest.approx(r["loss_mw"])
 
 
def test_loading_parallel_and_temperature(configs):
    cfg = configs[0]
    cfg2 = cfg.model_copy(update={"parallel_circuits": 2})
    r = solve_line(cfg2, 132.1, 66.8, 13.5)
    assert r["loading_percent"] < 30
    assert resistance(cfg, 80) == pytest.approx(0.099344)
    assert solve_line(cfg,132.1,66.8,13.5,80)["loss_mw"] > 1.4923
 
 
@pytest.mark.parametrize("bad", ["vs_ll_kv", "p_recv_mw", "q_recv_mvar"])
def test_bad_input_blocks_solve(frame, configs, bad):
    frame.signal_quality[bad] = "BAD"
    s = evaluate(frame, configs, "test", "offline")
    assert s["model_status"] == "INPUTS_INSUFFICIENT"
    assert s["assessment"] != "WITHIN_LIMIT"
    assert s["prediction"] is None
 
 
@pytest.mark.parametrize("state,expected", [("UNKNOWN","TOPOLOGY_UNKNOWN"),
                                            ("DEENERGIZED","NOT_ENERGIZED")])
def test_topology_gate(frame, configs, state, expected):
    frame.connection_state = state
    assert evaluate(frame, configs, "test", "offline")["model_status"] == expected
 
 
def test_one_end_open_has_charging(frame, configs):
    frame.connection_state = "RECEIVING_OPEN"
    frame.p_recv_mw = frame.q_recv_mvar = 0
    frame.signal_quality["p_send_mw"] = "BAD"
    s = evaluate(frame, configs, "test", "offline")
    assert s["model_status"] == "SOLVED"
    assert s["prediction"]["is_a"] > 10
    assert s["prediction"]["ir_a"] < 1e-6
 
 
def test_open_inconsistent_and_inactive(frame, configs):
    frame.connection_state = "RECEIVING_OPEN"
    assert evaluate(frame,configs,"test","offline")["model_status"] == "TOPOLOGY_MISMATCH"
    frame.connection_state = "CONNECTED"
    cfg = configs[0].model_copy(update={"in_service":False})
    assert evaluate(frame,[cfg],"test","offline")["model_status"] == "TOPOLOGY_MISMATCH"
 
 
def test_failure_is_explicit(frame, configs):
    frame.p_recv_mw = 2000
    s = evaluate(frame,configs,"test","offline")
    assert s["model_status"] == "MODEL_FAILED"
    assert s["prediction"] is None
 
 
def test_parameter_selection(frame, configs):
    cfg = configs[0]
    cut = frame.event_time + timedelta(hours=1)
    old = cfg.model_copy(update={"valid_to":cut})
    new = cfg.model_copy(update={"valid_from":cut,"parameter_version":"v2"})
    assert parameter_for([old,new],cfg.asset_id,cut).parameter_version == "v2"
    with pytest.raises(ValueError):
        parameter_for([cfg,new],cfg.asset_id,cut)
 
 
def test_explicit_utc_and_finite(frame):
    payload = frame.model_dump(mode="json")
    payload["event_time"] = "2026-01-01T00:00:00"
    with pytest.raises(ValueError):
        Measurement.model_validate(payload)
    payload["event_time"] = "2026-01-01T05:30:00+05:30"
    assert Measurement.model_validate(payload).event_time.hour == 0
    payload["p_recv_mw"] = float("nan")
    with pytest.raises(ValueError):
        Measurement.model_validate(payload)
 
 
def test_freshness_uses_run_clock(frame, configs):
    s = evaluate(frame, configs, "test", "replay")
    assert s["freshness"] == "FRESH"
    s = evaluate(frame, configs, "test", "live", frame.event_time+timedelta(minutes=3))
    assert s["assessment"] == "STALE_DATA"
 
 
def test_zero_voltage_preserved_for_outage(frame, configs):
    frame=Measurement.model_validate({**frame.model_dump(),"vs_ll_kv":0,
                                      "connection_state":"DEENERGIZED"})
    assert evaluate(frame,configs,"test","offline")["model_status"]=="NOT_ENERGIZED"
    frame.connection_state="CONNECTED"
    assert evaluate(frame,configs,"test","offline")["model_status"]=="TOPOLOGY_MISMATCH"
 
 
def test_residuals_remain_independent(frame, configs):
    s = evaluate(frame,configs,"test","offline")
    frame.vr_ll_kv += 1
    changed = evaluate(frame,configs,"test","offline")
    assert s["prediction"] == changed["prediction"]
    assert changed["residual_physics"]["vr_ll_kv"] - s["residual_physics"]["vr_ll_kv"] == pytest.approx(1)
 
 
def test_runs_dedup_conflict_late_and_api(tmp_path, frame, configs):
    store = Store("sqlite:///"+str(tmp_path/"twin.db")); store.init()
    store.ensure_run("r1","offline",{}); store.ensure_run("r2","offline",{})
    s = evaluate(frame,configs,"r1","offline"); s["mode"]="offline"
    assert store.commit_frame(frame,s)
    assert not store.commit_frame(frame,s)
    s2 = evaluate(frame,configs,"r2","offline")
    assert store.commit_frame(frame,s2)
    changed = frame.model_copy(update={"p_recv_mw":1})
    with pytest.raises(ValueError):
        store.commit_frame(changed,s)
    late = frame.model_copy(update={"message_id":"late","sequence_no":1,
                                    "event_time":frame.event_time-timedelta(hours=1)})
    store.commit_frame(late,evaluate(late,configs,"r1","offline"))
    assert store.history("r1",frame.asset_id,1)[0]["message_id"] == frame.message_id
    assert len(store.outbox("r1")) == 2
    store.mark_published("r1",frame.message_id)
    assert len(store.outbox("r1")) == 1
    client = TestClient(create_app(str(store.engine.url)))
    assert client.get("/health").status_code == 200
    path = f"/v1/runs/r1/lines/{frame.asset_id}"
    assert client.get(path+"/latest").json()["message_id"] == frame.message_id
    assert len(client.get(path+"/history").json()) == 2
    assert client.get(path+"/history?limit=0").status_code == 422
 
 
def test_immutable_parameter_registry(tmp_path, configs):
    store = Store("sqlite:///"+str(tmp_path/"twin.db"));store.init()
    store.register_parameters(configs)
    store.register_parameters([configs[0].model_copy(update={"valid_to":configs[0].valid_from+timedelta(days=1)})])
    with pytest.raises(ValueError):
        store.register_parameters([configs[0].model_copy(update={"r_ohm_per_km":0.2})])
 
 
def test_csv_units_timezone_and_rejects(tmp_path):
    csv_path = tmp_path/"export.csv"
    csv_path.write_text("timestamp,Vs_V,Pr_kW,Qr_kvar\n2026-01-01T05:30:00,132100,66800,13500\nbad,1,2,3\n")
    mapping = {"timestamp_column":"timestamp","timezone":"Asia/Colombo",
        "asset_id":"TL_001","source_id":"test","data_origin":"laboratory",
        "connection_state":"CONNECTED","signals":{
        "vs_ll_kv":{"column":"Vs_V","scale":0.001},
        "p_recv_mw":{"column":"Pr_kW","scale":0.001},
        "q_recv_mvar":{"column":"Qr_kvar","scale":0.001}}}
    mp=tmp_path/"map.json";mp.write_text(json.dumps(mapping))
    out=tmp_path/"out.jsonl"
    assert import_csv(csv_path,mp,out)==(1,1)
    m=Measurement.model_validate_json(out.read_text().strip())
    assert m.event_time.hour==0 and m.p_recv_mw==66.8
    assert m.dataset_id.startswith("sha256:")
 
 
def test_batch_and_duplicate_replay(tmp_path, configs):
    path=tmp_path/"day.jsonl";generate(ROOT/"config/lines.json",path,24)
    store=Store("sqlite:///"+str(tmp_path/"twin.db"))
    assert process(path,store,configs,"day")["accepted"]==24
    assert process(path,store,configs,"day")["duplicate"]==24
    result=report(store,"day")
    assert result["solved"]==24 and result["vr_ll_kv"]["mae"]<0.2
 
 
def test_connected_network_balance_and_island():
    result=advanced.network_demo()
    assert abs(result["active_power_balance_error_mw"])<1e-6
    spec=load_network();spec["lines"][0]["in_service"]=False
    with pytest.raises(ValueError):
        solve_network(spec)
 
 
def test_state_estimation():
    result=advanced.estimate_demo()
    assert result["success"] and result["max_voltage_error_pu"]<1e-6
 
 
def test_three_phase_and_fault():
    result=advanced.three_phase_demo()
    assert 0<result["voltage_unbalance_percent"]<1
    sc=advanced.fault_demo()
    assert sc["ip_ka"]>sc["ikss_ka"]>0
    assert not sc["waveforms_computed"]
 
 
def test_thermal():
    result=advanced.thermal_demo()
    assert 35<result["pandapower_600s_temperature_c"]<80
    assert result["teaching_heat_model_steady_temperature_c"]>result["teaching_heat_model_600s_temperature_c"]
    assert not result["operational_rating_validated"]
 
 
def test_learning_and_forecast(tmp_path, configs):
    from tl_twin.learning import train_residual,corrected_voltage
    from tl_twin.forecast import train_forecast
    import joblib
    path=tmp_path/"training.jsonl";generate(ROOT/"config/lines.json",path,576)
    output=tmp_path/"residual.joblib"
    meta=train_residual(path,configs,output)
    assert meta["guarded_hybrid_test_mae_kv"]<meta["physics_test_mae_kv"]
    assert not meta["automatic_promotion"]
    m=Measurement.model_validate_json(path.read_text().splitlines()[0])
    m.vs_ll_kv=200
    assert not corrected_voltage(joblib.load(output),configs[0],m,126)["used_ml"]
    forecast=train_forecast(path,tmp_path/"forecast.joblib")
    assert forecast["forecast_mae_mw"]<forecast["persistence_mae_mw"]
 
 
def test_alignment_rejects_future_and_skew(frame):
    from tl_twin.alignment import assemble_frame
    envelope=frame.model_dump(mode="json")
    for key in ("vs_ll_kv","p_recv_mw","q_recv_mvar"):
        envelope.pop(key)
    samples={"vs_ll_kv":[{"event_time":"2026-01-01T00:00:01+00:00",
        "value":200,"quality":"GOOD"},{"event_time":"2025-12-31T23:59:59+00:00",
        "value":132.1,"quality":"GOOD"}],
        "p_recv_mw":[{"event_time":"2025-12-31T23:59:55+00:00",
        "value":66.8,"quality":"GOOD"}]}
    m=assemble_frame(envelope,samples)
    assert m.vs_ll_kv==132.1
    assert m.signal_quality["vs_ll_kv"]=="SUSPECT"
    assert m.source_metadata["alignment_skew_s"]==4
 
 
def test_mechanical_known_tension_and_calibration(tmp_path, configs):
    from tl_twin.mechanical import sag_catenary
    from tl_twin.calibration import fit_rx
    s=sag_catenary(300,12,20000)
    assert s["sag_parabolic_m"]==pytest.approx(6.75)
    assert 6.75<s["sag_catenary_m"]<6.76
    path=tmp_path/"calibration.jsonl";generate(ROOT/"config/lines.json",path,80)
    result=fit_rx(path,configs[0],tmp_path/"candidate.json")
    assert result["fit_success"] and not result["automatic_parameter_update"]

Appendix B Verification and expected outputs
Executed on 2 October 2026 using a fresh isolated Python 3.12.14 environment and the supplied runtime and development lock files. Package installation completed successfully and pip check reported no broken requirements.
The complete automated suite passed 30 tests with no failures. It covers independent pandapower versus ABCD calculations including forward, zero-load and reverse flow; terminal power balance; parallel circuits; measured temperature resistance; required input quality; open-end charging; topology mismatch; unavailable and failed model states; event-time parameter selection; timezone/nonfinite validation; replay freshness; independent residual roles; durable duplicate handling; conflicting identity; late-event latest ordering; transactional outbox; read-only API responses; immutable parameter registry; CSV units/timezone/rejection; batch replay; connected-network conservation and islands; state estimation; three-phase and short-circuit examples; thermal integration; residual learning with domain fallback; purged forecasting; signal alignment; mechanical geometry; and constrained parameter fitting.
After the adapter identity and forecast metadata refinements, the three affected CSV/alignment/learning-and-forecast tests were repeated successfully. Third-party deprecation/future warnings remain visible in the test output; they concern pinned-library compatibility and did not cause numerical or workflow test failures.
The synthetic one-day offline run committed 288 states, all solved, with zero rejected frames. Receiving-voltage residual bias and MAE were approximately −0.120270 kV and 0.120270 kV, and RMSE was 0.122683 kV. The synthetic observations intentionally contain voltage bias/noise. Sending active-power MAE was 0.022625 MW. Near-zero current and reactive-power residuals reflect shared equivalent-circuit generation, not independent field accuracy.
The worked 132.1 kV and 66.8 MW plus 13.5 MVAr case gave receiving voltage 126.697514 kV, receiving current 310.556265 A, sending current 307.531842 A, sending power 68.292348 MW plus 16.950410 MVAr and active loss 1.492348 MW. The independent pi and pandapower implementations agree within the tested tolerances.
The connected network gave total active loss 1.988060 MW and absolute source/load/loss balance mismatch below 0.000001 MW. The noiseless state-estimation example succeeded. The unbalanced example gave voltage unbalance about 0.049246 percent. The three-phase short-circuit example gave initial symmetrical fault current 1.947487 kA. Thermal and mechanical values are teaching-model results rather than certified equipment limits.
For the one-day synthetic residual experiment, raw-physics test MAE was 0.133919 kV, unguarded hybrid MAE 0.017169 kV and guarded hybrid MAE 0.082537 kV. ML applied to only 44.83 percent of held-out frames under training-bound guards. The unguarded test interval covered about 89.66 percent despite a calibration 95th-percentile interval construction. This illustrates why observed coverage and guarded behaviour must be reported.
The fifteen-minute synthetic forecast MAE was approximately 0.004796 MW versus persistence MAE 0.985274 MW. The ideal smooth synthetic day is intentionally easy; these values do not establish performance on real load fluctuations.
Compose YAML syntax was parsed, Python sources compiled, service dependencies and PostgreSQL 18 volume placement reviewed, and Grafana/schema generators executed. Docker, Mosquitto, PostgreSQL and Grafana service runtimes are unavailable in this authoring environment, so the complete container stack, real broker delivery/restart behaviour, PostgreSQL restore and Grafana UI were not executed. Run the handbook’s local deployment and recovery checks before claiming those gates pass.
No actual utility parameter set, approved live adapter or real-line holdout dataset was provided. Field accuracy, operational ratings, utility connectivity, production throughput and high availability remain to be established by the project team using the specified evidence and acceptance gates. The source is a research reference and does not issue equipment commands.

Appendix C Correction register
Topic in the earlier handbook
Correction in this edition
Ambiguous first solve
Explicit source, receiving branch boundary and independent validation roles
Inconsistent numerical examples
One reproducible pi case with tested terminal values and losses
Power signs
Both pandapower endpoints entering branch; receive signs converted explicitly
Reactive loss wording
Net reactive absorption separated from active energy loss
Circuit count
Full circuits separated from bundle subconductor metadata
Line builder completeness
Slack, boundary load, in_service and convergence included
Independent components
Shared bus registry, clock, topology and network solve required
Time and result identity
Separate runs, message IDs, event/receive/process clocks and lineage
Historical parameters
Event-time intervals and immutable parameter values
Data status
Explicit unavailable, suspect, stale, topology and failed states
One-ended switching
Energized receiving-open charging distinguished from deenergization
MQTT delivery
Manual acknowledgement, durable identity, retry and transactional outbox
PostgreSQL storage
PostgreSQL 18 parent-directory volume and role initialization
Startup ordering
Service health, completed initialization and retries
Learning claims
Leakage checks, guarded fallback, holdout metrics and raw residual preservation
Thermal claim
Measured R correction separated from dynamic heat balance and ratings
Mechanical claim
Tension and geometry inputs required before sag/clearance conclusions
Fault claim
Steady state, three-phase, short circuit and waveform/EMT separated
Maturity labels
Internal rubric distinguished from universal standards
Deployment evidence
Executed Python checks separated from unexecuted full container checks

Retain this register when future revisions change these behaviours. Update implementation, tests, handbook commands, expected outputs and verification record together so the handbook remains an executable specification for the team.